SYSTEMATIC REVIEW

# Venetoclax Plus Rituximab for Relapse/Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia: A Systematic Review and Network Meta‑analysis of Treatments Available in Brazil

Bruno M. Barros  · Márcia Gisele S. Costa  · Marcelo G. Correia  · Carlos S. Magliano

Pedro Vitor P. Lima  · Natália B. Santoni  · Andreas Duva  · Maria Isabel Duran

Received: November 6, 2025 / Accepted: January 28, 2026 / Published online: February 21, 2026   
© The Author(s) 2026

## ABSTRACT

Introduction: Venetoclax represents a signifcant advancement in target anticancer therapy in the management of relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (RR-CLL). This study aims to compare the effcacy and safety of the venetoclax + rituximab (VenR) regimen with other therapies approved in Brazil.

Methods: A systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) was conducted to evaluate the effcacy and safety of treatments approved in Brazil for RR-CLL. Comprehensive literature searches were performed to identify randomized controlled trials. Risk of bias and certainty of evidence for each outcome were assessed across

the included studies. The NMA was conducted using a frequentist framework. The primary effcacy outcomes were progression-free survival, overall survival, overall response rate, and time to next therapy. Safety was assessed on the basis of the incidence of serious adverse events.

Results: A total of 24 publications related to 12 trials were identified and included. VenR was associated with better survival outcomes when compared with standard regimens such as rituximab (HR 0.16; 95% CI 0.03–0.74) and physician choice (HR 0.17; 95% CI 0.04–0.81). In terms of progression-free survival, VenR achieved HR<0.20, supported by narrow confdence intervals, when compared to treatments such as bendamustine plus rituximab, ofatumumab and physician choice, in addition to signifcantly favorable results compared to ibrutinib and acalabrutinib. Approximately half of the studies presented a low risk of bias, and the certainty of evidence assessed using the GRADE-NMA approach resulted in very low certainty of evidence, mainly due to risk of bias, intransitivity, and imprecision.

Conclusion: This NMA provides valuable evidence to support rational therapeutic choices for RR-CLL in Brazil, highlighting VenR and Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors as leading treatment options across diverse clinical scenarios.

## PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that returns after treatment or does not respond well to available medications, known as relapsed or refractory CLL, remains a therapeutic challenge, especially for patients who have already undergone multiple previous treatments. Venetoclax has shown promising results in this population. In this study, we evaluated the effcacy and safety of venetoclax, used in combination with rituximab, compared with other treatments approved for relapsed or refractory CLL (RR-CLL) in Brazil. We conducted a literature review of clinical studies evaluating the effcacy of RR-CLL treatments that were directly compared within the same trials. We also performed a statistical analysis to compare treatments indirectly, since most treatments had not been directly compared in the studies. The main objectives assessed were patient survival time, duration of disease control, treatment response rates, and the occurrence of serious side effects. Across the available 12 trials, the venetoclax plus rituximab combination showed better disease control and longer survival compared with several other treatments, with similar side effects. However, the certainty of these results is still limited because the studies had important differences between them. Nevertheless, these fndings help guide treatment decisions for people with RR-CLL, highlighting the role of venetoclax and also other drugs in the same class, such as Bruton’s tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

Keywords: Chronic lymphocytic leukemia; Network meta-analysis; Refractory; Relapsed; Rituximab; Systematic review; Venetoclax

## Key Summary Points

## Why carry out this study?

## What was learned fom the study?

In the network meta-analysis, venetoclax plus rituximab achieved better overall and progression-free survival compared with most regimens, including rituximab, bendamustine plus rituximab, and physician’s choice, while also demonstrating a similar rate of serious adverse events.

The results support venetoclax plus rituximab as one of the most effective therapeutic options for patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia in Brazil, with a safety profle comparable to other approved regimens.

## INTRODUCTION

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), a prevalent adult leukemia, primarily affects older adults, with 191,000 cases and 61,000 deaths annually worldwide, causing infection, anemia, and thrombocytopenia [1].

Venetoclax (Ven), a selective oral inhibitor of the B cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) protein, represents a signifcant advancement in target anticancer therapy. It has demonstrated its effcacy and safety in treating CLL, accelerating apoptosis, and signifcantly lowering the tumor burden [2, 3]. The initial indications approved on the basis of phase 3 trials included patients with previously treated CLL, as well as those with disease progression after immunochemotherapy and B cell receptor signaling inhibitors [4, 5].

Although most patients with CLL exhibit a prolonged initial response to therapy, approaches are not curative. Consequently, many patients experience disease progression or drug intolerance, requiring other therapeutic options [1]. This can be seen in patients treated with continuous therapy with Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKis) such as ibrutinib (Ibru), acalabrutinib (Acala), and zanubrutinib (Zan), for whom intolerance is a common cause of treatment discontinuation [6, 7].

Patients with relapsed/refractory CLL (RR-CLL) who achieve disease control should undergo close monitoring to enable early detection of symptomatic disease requiring intervention [8]. The selection of subsequent therapy for patients with disease progression or intolerance to initial treatment is individualized and considers prior therapy, response rate and duration of prior treatment, reason for discontinuation, patient and tumor characteristics, patient preference, and treatment goals [1].

In Brazil, oncology care is predominantly funded by the Unified Health System (SUS), making the evaluation of incorporated therapies particularly relevant for public reimbursement and guideline development. In this context, the National Health Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) has approved the use of Ven and BTKis for CLL, and in May 2025, the Brazilian Association of Hematology, Hemotherapy and Cell Therapy published new recommendations for the diagnosis and treatment of CLL which also included targeted therapies, such as BTKis and BCL2 inhibitors [9]. However, the Ministry of Health has not yet developed a clinical protocol and therapeutic guidelines for CLL. The absence of such a protocol further reinforces the need for comparative evidence to support treatment decisions within the SUS.

Despite therapeutic advances, the lack of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) with direct comparisons between available regimens hampers the identifcation of the optimal treatment strategy, especially within the context of nationally approved options. Indirect comparison studies were carried out, but they did not include all therapies available in Brazil, or included therapies not available on the Brazilian market, which limits their use in economic evaluations in the national context [10–12].

The aim of this study was to evaluate the effcacy and safety of the Ven+rituximab (VenR) for the treatment of RR-CLL, compared with other drugs approved in Brazil.

## METHODS

A systematic literature review was performed to identify all treatments available in Brazil for the management of RR-CLL, and a network metaanalysis (NMA) was subsequently conducted. The systematic review was conducted in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses for Network Meta-Analyses (PRISMA-NMA) guidelines and was registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO), under registration number CRD420251030254. This article is based on previously conducted studies and does not contain any new studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the authors, therefore did not require ethical approval.

## Search Strategy and Selection Criteria

Electronic searches were conducted on February 17, 2025 in the Medline, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and LILACS databases to identify RCTs that evaluated the effcacy and safety of drugs approved in Brazil for the treatment of RR-CLL. Searches of the gray literature were also performed in the GreyGuide, OpenGrey, MedRxiv databases, and a Brazilian repository of theses and dissertations (CAPES), as well as consultations with hematologic cancer experts. No restrictions were applied regarding publication date or language. The detailed search strategies are presented in Table S1 (Supplementary Material).

The inclusion criteria adopted for study eligibility were (i) phase 3 or later RCTs, including post hoc analyses that provided long-term follow-up data. Only RCTs were included, as they provide the highest level of evidence for effcacy. Systematic reviews were accepted in a frst selection, only for manual searching of additional RCTs, not captured in the initial electronic search; (ii) patients aged ≥ 18 years with a diagnosis of RR-CLL who had received at least one prior line of therapy; (iii) evaluated drugs approved for use in Brazil, including those used off-label; (iv) placebo treatment, monotherapy, combined treatment regimens were accepted as comparators. Exclusion criteria included (i) conference abstracts, letters to the editor, or studies that did not provide extractable data; (ii) studies with crossover. Nevertheless, those in which crossover was offered in a subsequent phase were considered, provided that data from the noncrossover phase were available.

The effcacy outcomes of interest were progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), overall response rates (ORRs), and time to next therapy (TTNT). The safety outcome assessed was the occurrence of serious adverse events (SAEs).

The screening phase, including title and abstract review, was performed independently by two researchers (BB and MGC) to identify potentially relevant studies for full-text evaluation. In the second stage, the same two researchers independently assessed the full texts to determine study eligibility according to the predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria. Discrepancies were resolved by consensus or, if needed, by a third reviewer (CM).

## Extraction

For trials that met the eligibility criteria, data were extracted on study characteristics (year, frst author, study name), baseline patient characteristics (age, sex, number and type of prior therapies, time since diagnosis, genetic mutations, and ECOG performance status), interventions (drug and dosage), and outcome measures. Data was extracted for the intention-to-treat (ITT) populations using a spreadsheet specifcally designed for standardized data collection. This process was carried out by the same two reviewers who conducted the study screening and selection, using an Excel (Microsoft®)

extraction spreadsheet. Any discrepancies were resolved by consensus or with the involvement of a third reviewer.

For the primary analyses, data from the publication with the longest available follow-up for each trial were used. For the outcomes PFS and ORR, data were extracted from both investigator assessments and independent review committees (IRC). IRC data were obtained from the pivotal study publication, whereas investigatorassessed data was sourced from follow-up publications with the longest follow-up periods.

## Risk of Bias and Quality of the Evidence Assessment

The risk of bias in the included studies was assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias 2.0 (RoB 2.0) tool [13]. The certainty in the body of evidence for the evaluated outcomes was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach, adapted for NMA [14].

## Statistical Analysis

We conducted a NMA using a frequentist framework to estimate the relative treatment effects across all interventions included in the treatment network. A random-effects model was employed to account for between-study heterogeneity. All analyses were performed using the netmeta package in R. Results were expressed as hazard ratios (HRs) for time-to-event outcomes and odds ratios (ORs) for binary outcomes, along with 95% confdence intervals (CIs).

Each clinical outcome was analyzed as a separate network. VenR was used as the common comparator to anchor the networks. Treatment ranking was based on P-scores, which represent the mean certainty that one treatment is superior to another. To better interpret the treatment hierarchy, rankograms were generated for each outcome. Treatments were ranked within each simulated dataset, and the frequency of each rank position was aggregated to form empirical distributions. While P-scores provide a summary measure of the likelihood that a treatment is among the best options, rankograms offer a more detailed view by displaying the full range of possible rankings and their associated probabilities. This allows for a better understanding of the uncertainty and variability surrounding each treatment’s relative performance in the network.

Network geometry was visually inspected to assess connectivity and potential biases. Global heterogeneity was quantifed using $\tau ^ { 2 }$ (the estimated between-study variance), $I ^ { 2 }$ (the proportion of total variation attributable to heterogeneity), and Cochran’s Q-statistic. These metrics provided a comprehensive assessment of the consistency and variability of treatment effects across the included studies.

## Sensitivity Analysis

Sensitivity analyses were performed, removing studies that presented a high risk of bias or important heterogeneity. To assess the robustness of the NMA fndings, meta-regression analyses were performed to explore potential sources of heterogeneity among the included studies. By incorporating relevant study-level covariates, we sought to determine whether certain clinical or methodological characteristics exerted a modifying infuence on the estimated treatment effects.

Meta-regressions were employed with the aim of identifying potential sources of heterogeneity. The meta-regression models were specifed under a random-effects framework. The covariates examined comprised the overall risk of bias attributed to each study, the proportion of male participants, the mean age of the study population, the percentage of patients harboring the del(17p) cytogenetic alteration or TP53 mutation, the proportion of individuals with a history of more than three prior lines of therapy, and the prevalence of bulky disease—defned as the presence of lymph nodes measuring at least 5 cm in diameter. These covariates were selected a priori because of their recognized prognostic relevance and potential to modify treatment effects in RR-CLL.

## RESULTS

A total of 1170 records were identifed in the systematic review. After duplicates were removed and titles and abstracts were screened, 93 references were selected for full-text review, including 13 systematic reviews and 80 RCTs. Following full-text reading, 24 publications [15–38] related to 12 RCTs were included; two of these were identifed through manual search of the systematic reviews [20, 38] (Fig. S1—Supplementary Material). Excluded references at this stage, along with reasons for exclusion, are detailed in Table S2 (Supplementary Material).

All included trials were multicenter and enrolled a total of 4360 participants, of whom 68% were male, with a mean age of 65 years. Across the studies, 15 different treatment regimens for RR-CLL were identifed, all composed of drugs approved for use in Brazil.

The treatments were acala, bendamustine (B), rituximab (R), B + R (BR), fudarabine (F), F+alemtuzumab (A) (FA), F+cyclophosphamide (C) (FC), Ibru, Ibru + B + R (IbruBR), ofatumumab (Ofa), Ofa + F + C (OfaFC), F + C + R (FCR), VenR, Zan, and physician’s choice (PCh).

Included in one study [36], PCh comprised regimens based on A, B, F, R, as well as others such as chlorambucil and corticosteroids, and was considered an appropriate comparator because there was no consensus on the standard of care for the RR-CLL population, representing a group of well-established treatment options. Ofa and A were included in the systematic review because they are approved for use in Brazil, although not specifcally for patients with RR-CLL. Drugs such as duvelisib, idelalisib, oblimersen, and ublituximab were not included, as they were not yet approved for use in Brazil at the time of the analysis. One included trial reported data from a treatment arm with idelalisib + R or BR; however, only the data from the BR arm were used in our meta-analysis [28, 29] .

The main characteristics of the included studies are summarized in Table 1, and the metaanalysis inputs are in Tables 2 and 3. Additional details, including baseline demographic characteristics, are presented in Tables S3 to S5 (Supplementary Material).

Overall, the defnitions of all outcomes were considered suffciently similar for comparison (Table S3, Supplementary Material). However, some baseline characteristics such as mutational status or number of prior therapies varied considerably between some studies (Table S4, Supplementary Material). Follow-up time was another criterion that differed between trials. In most trials, disease assessment was based on the 2008 guidelines of the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL), but the three older studies adopted the criteria of the National Cancer Institute Working Group [22, 35, 38].

<table><tr><td colspan="6">Table 1 Characteristics of the included studies in the systematic review</td></tr><tr><td>Study name (no. studies included)</td><td>Blinding</td><td>No. countries (centers)</td><td>Medications and doses</td><td>Treatment continuation</td><td>Funding</td></tr><tr><td>MURANO (4) [17, 25, 31, 32]</td><td>Open-label</td><td>20 (109)</td><td>Venetoclax (ramp-up from 20 mg/day to 400 mg/day for 2 years) (OR) + rituximab</td><td>Up to 2 years (Ven) and up to 6 Genentech and AbbVie cycles of 28 days (R)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>(IV)a Bendamustine 70 mg/m2 (IV) on days 12 in cycles 1-6 + rituximab (IV)a</td><td>Up to 6 cycles of 28 days</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ALPINE (2) [15, 16]</td><td>Open-label 15 (113)</td><td></td><td>Zanubrutinib 160 mg twice daily (OR)</td><td>Until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity</td><td>BeiGene</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Ibrutinib 420 mg once daily (OR)</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ASCEND (2) [28, 29]</td><td>Open-label 25 (102)</td><td></td><td>Acalabrutinib 100 mg twice daily (OR)</td><td>Until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity</td><td>Acerta Pharma</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Bendamustine 70 mg/m2 (IV) days 1 and 2 + rituximab (IV)a</td><td>Up to 6 cycles of 28 days</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ELEVATE-RR (1) [20]</td><td>Open-label 15 (124)</td><td></td><td>Acalabrutinib 100 mg twice daily (OR)</td><td>Until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity</td><td>AstraZeneca</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Ibrutinib 420 mg/day (OR)</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Huang et al. (1) [30]</td><td>Open-label 4 (29)</td><td></td><td>Ibrutinib 420 mg/day (OR)</td><td>Until progressive disease or</td><td>Janssen Research &amp; Develop-</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Rituximab (IV)b</td><td>unacceptable toxicity</td><td>ment</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td colspan="6">Table 1 continued</td></tr><tr><td>Study name (no. studies included)</td><td>Blinding</td><td>No. countries (centers)</td><td>Medications and doses</td><td>Treatment continuation</td><td>Funding</td></tr><tr><td>COMPLEMENT 2 (2) [27, 37]</td><td>Open-label</td><td>18 (87)</td><td>Ofatumumabd + fludarabine 25 mg/m2 + cyclophospha- mide 250 mg/m² days 1-3 each cycle Fludarabine 25 mg/m2 + cyclo- phosphamide 250 mg/m2</td><td>Up to 6 cycles of 28 days</td><td>GlaxoSmithKline and Genmab A/S</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">HELIOS (3) [21, 23, 26]</td><td rowspan="2">Double-blind 21 (133)</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td>days 13 each cycle Ibrutinib 420 mg/day (OR) + bendamustine 70 mg/ m2 (IV) on days 23 in cycle</td><td>Until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity (Ibru) and up to 6 cycles of 28 days</td><td rowspan="2">Janssen Research &amp; Develop- ment</td></tr><tr><td>1 and days 12 in cycles 2-6 + rituximab (IV)a Placebo + bendamustine 70 mg/ Up to 6 cycles of 28 days m2 (IV) on days 23 in cycle</td><td>(BR)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">OMB114242 (2) [33, 36]</td><td rowspan="2">Open-label 14 (41)</td><td rowspan="2"></td><td>1 and days 12 in cycles 2-6 + rituximab (IV)a</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Ofatumumab (IV)c Physician&#x27;s choice*</td><td>Up to 6 months</td><td>Up to 12 infusions (6 months) GlaxoSmithKline and Genmab A/S</td></tr><tr><td>RESONATE (4) [18, 19, 24, 34]</td><td>Open-label 9 (67)</td><td></td><td>Ibrutinib 420 mg/day (OR)</td><td>Until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity</td><td>Pharmacyclics and Janssen</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>(days 15) (IV) each cycle</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Open-label 1 (27)</td><td></td><td>Ofatumumab (IV)c</td><td>Up to 24 weeks</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Niederle et al. (1) [35]</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Bendamustine 100 mg/m2</td><td>Up to 8 cycles of 28 days</td><td>Mundipharma GmbH and</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>(days 12) (IV) each cycle Fludarabine 25 mg/m2</td><td></td><td>Ribosepharm GmbH</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td colspan="6">Table 1 continued</td></tr><tr><td>Study name (no. studies included)</td><td>Blinding</td><td>No. countries (centers)</td><td>Medications and doses</td><td>Treatment continuation</td><td>Funding</td></tr><tr><td>Elter et al. (1) [22]</td><td>Open-label</td><td>15 (48)</td><td>Fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day (IV) + alemtuzumab 30 mg/ day (IV) (days 13) each cycle Fludarabine 25 mg/m2 (IV) (days 15) each cycle</td><td>Up to 6 cycles of 28 days</td><td>Genzyme</td></tr><tr><td>REACH (1) [38]</td><td>Open-label 17 (88)</td><td></td><td>Rituximab (IV)a + fludarabine 25 mg/m2 (IV) + cyclophos- phamide 250 mg/m2 (IV) (days 13) each cycle Fludarabine 25 mg/m2 (IV) + cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m2 (IV) (days 13) each cycle</td><td>Up to 6 cycles of 28 days</td><td>F. Hoffmann-La Roche</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">OR oral route, IV intravenous route mustine, chlorambucil, glucocorticoids, and rituximab ± prednisone, either in combination or as monotherapy</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">aRituximab: 375 mg/m2 on day 1 of cycle 1, and 500 mg/m2 on day 1 of cycles 26 bRituximab: 375 mg/m2 on day 1 of cycle 1, and 500 mg/m² on day 1 of cycles 26 and on day 15 of cycles 12</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">cOfatumumab 300 mg day 1 + 1000 mg day 8 and day 1 of next cycles</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8">datumab: 300 mg at week 1, followed by a dose of 2000 mg weekly for 7 weeks and then monthly for 4 mnhs</td></tr><tr><td colspan="8"></td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td colspan="15">Table 2 Serious adverse events</td></tr><tr><td>Overall survival Study</td><td>Year</td><td>Treat 1</td><td>N1 Treat2</td><td>N2</td><td>HR</td><td>95% CI</td><td>Median FU (months)</td><td>Study</td><td>Year</td><td>Treat1</td><td>N1</td><td>n(%)</td><td>Treat2</td><td>N2</td><td>n(%)</td><td>Median FU (months)</td></tr><tr><td>ALPINE</td><td>2024</td><td>Zan</td><td>327</td><td>Ibru</td><td>325</td><td>0.77</td><td>0.55-1.06</td><td>42.5</td><td>ALPINE 2024</td><td>Zan</td><td>324</td><td>172 (53.1)</td><td>Ibru</td><td>324</td><td>196 (60.5)</td><td>42.5</td></tr><tr><td>ASCEND</td><td>2020</td><td>Acala</td><td>155</td><td>BR</td><td>36 0.92*</td><td>0.26-3.17*</td><td>16.1</td><td>ASCEND</td><td>2022</td><td>Acala</td><td>154</td><td>70 (45.4)</td><td>BR</td><td>35</td><td>9 (25.7)</td><td>42</td></tr><tr><td>COMPLE- MENT 2</td><td>2020</td><td>OfaFC</td><td>183</td><td>FC</td><td>182 0.8</td><td>0.59-1.09</td><td>60</td><td>COMPLE- MENT 2</td><td>2020</td><td>OfaFC</td><td>181</td><td>60 (33)</td><td>FC</td><td>178</td><td>52 (29)</td><td>60</td></tr><tr><td>ELEVATE-RR</td><td>2021</td><td>Acala</td><td>268</td><td>Ibru</td><td>265 0.82</td><td>0.59-1.15</td><td>40.9</td><td></td><td>ELEVATE-RR 2021</td><td>Acala</td><td>266</td><td>143 (53.8)</td><td>Ibru</td><td>263</td><td>154 (58.6)</td><td>40.9</td></tr><tr><td>Elter</td><td>2011</td><td>FA</td><td>168 F</td><td></td><td>167 0.65</td><td>0.45-0.94</td><td>29.5</td><td>Elter</td><td>2011</td><td>FA</td><td>164</td><td>54 (32.9)</td><td>F</td><td>165</td><td>41 (24.8)</td><td>29.5</td></tr><tr><td>HELIOS</td><td>2020</td><td>IbruBR</td><td>289</td><td>BR</td><td>289 0.61</td><td>0.46-0.82</td><td>60</td><td>HELIOS</td><td>2016</td><td>IbruBR</td><td>287</td><td>150 (52.3)</td><td>BR</td><td>287</td><td>125 (43.6)</td><td>17</td></tr><tr><td>Huang</td><td>2018</td><td>Ibru</td><td>106 R</td><td></td><td>54 0.45</td><td>0.220.9</td><td>24</td><td>Huang</td><td>2018</td><td>Ibru</td><td>104</td><td>45 (43.3)</td><td>R</td><td>52</td><td>17 (32.7)</td><td>17.8</td></tr><tr><td>MURANO</td><td>2020</td><td>VenR</td><td>194</td><td>BR</td><td>195 0.40</td><td>0.26-0.62</td><td>60</td><td>MURANO</td><td>2018</td><td>VenR</td><td>194</td><td>90 (46.4)</td><td>BR</td><td>188</td><td>81 (43.1)</td><td>22.1</td></tr><tr><td>Niederle</td><td>2013</td><td>B</td><td>49 F</td><td></td><td>43</td><td>0.82 0.47-1.43</td><td>34</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>OMB114242</td><td>2020</td><td>Ofa</td><td>79</td><td>PCh</td><td>43</td><td>0.75 0.48-1.17</td><td>60</td><td>OMB114242</td><td>2016</td><td>Ofa</td><td>78</td><td>39 (50)</td><td>PCh</td><td>43</td><td>22 (51)</td><td>12</td></tr><tr><td>REACH</td><td>2010</td><td>FC</td><td>276</td><td>RFC</td><td>276</td><td>0.83 0.59-1.17</td><td>25</td><td>REACH</td><td>2010</td><td>FC</td><td>272</td><td>130 (47.8)</td><td>RFC</td><td>274</td><td>137 (50)</td><td>25</td></tr><tr><td>RESONATE</td><td>2019</td><td>Ibru</td><td>195</td><td>Ofa</td><td>196 0.64</td><td>0.420.98</td><td>74</td><td>RESONATE</td><td>2014</td><td>Ibru</td><td>195</td><td>81 (41.5)</td><td>Ofa</td><td>191</td><td>58 (30.4)</td><td>9.4</td></tr><tr><td colspan="9">Time to next treatment N1</td><td colspan="7"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="10">Study Year</td><td colspan="7">N2 HR 95% CI Median FU</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">COMPLEMENT 2</td><td colspan="3">2020</td><td colspan="2">OfaFC</td><td colspan="3">183 FC</td><td colspan="4"></td><td colspan="2">(months) 0.55-1.08 60</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">MURANO</td><td colspan="2">2018</td><td colspan="2">VenR</td><td>194</td><td colspan="2">BR</td><td colspan="2">182 195</td><td colspan="3">0.77 0.26</td><td colspan="2">0.20-0.35 60</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">OMB114242</td><td colspan="2"></td><td colspan="2">Ofa</td><td>79</td><td colspan="2">PCh</td><td colspan="2">43</td><td colspan="3">0.26-0.77</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">REACH</td><td colspan="2">2016 2010</td><td colspan="2">FC</td><td>276</td><td colspan="2">RFC</td><td colspan="2">276</td><td colspan="3">0.45 0.65 0.49-0.86</td><td>12</td><td>25</td></tr><tr><td colspan="15">Ofa Ofatumumab, PCh physician&#x27;s choice, R rituximab, Ven venetoclax, Zan zanubrutinib hzra  o. 0</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td>09</td><td>(Zε)91</td><td>ξ7</td><td>pod</td><td>(76)6</td><td>6L</td><td>Se</td><td>2200</td><td>OAIAA</td><td></td><td>1I</td><td>(ε&#x27;9) E7</td><td>pod</td><td></td><td>(8) 0 6L</td><td></td><td>Re</td><td>007 77I10</td></tr><tr><td>vE</td><td>(29) ∠7</td><td>E7</td><td>d</td><td>(9) ∠ε</td><td>67</td><td>g</td><td>2202</td><td>Nepce</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>87</td><td>() 12</td><td>S6I</td><td>RR</td><td>() 0</td><td>761</td><td>Yer</td><td>2200</td><td>NNNN</td><td>8&#x27;E7</td><td>(1) [</td><td>S6I</td><td>RR</td><td>(E76) 6∠1</td><td>761</td><td>Eer</td><td>2007</td><td>NNNNN</td></tr><tr><td>821</td><td>(7L)7</td><td>75</td><td>P</td><td>(8E) ∠</td><td>901</td><td>Iq</td><td>2007</td><td>HuenH</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>∠E9</td><td>(1&#x27;99) I61</td><td>687</td><td>RR</td><td>(28)227</td><td>687</td><td>CR</td><td>2200</td><td>HEETIHS</td><td>∠I</td><td>(829) 961</td><td>687</td><td>PR</td><td>(78) 67</td><td>687</td><td>CR</td><td>2007</td><td>HEITIH</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>267</td><td>(S9</td><td>∠91</td><td>E</td><td>(8) ∠</td><td>891</td><td>A</td><td>220Z</td><td>Btr RR</td></tr><tr><td>6&#x27;07</td><td>(08) 217</td><td>297</td><td>Iqu</td><td>(998) 7</td><td>897</td><td>Rra</td><td>2207</td><td>RR ET.</td><td>6&#x27;07</td><td>(∠)07</td><td>997</td><td>nqu</td><td>8) ∠7</td><td>897</td><td>Mra</td><td>2201</td><td>ELAT.</td></tr><tr><td>09</td><td>(28) 671</td><td>782</td><td>EO</td><td>16) ∠91</td><td>E81</td><td>OOR</td><td>2200</td><td>MMENL COEA</td><td>7E</td><td>(9) 21</td><td>182</td><td>EO</td><td>(9&#x27;E8) ε</td><td>E83</td><td>ORE</td><td>2007</td><td>MMENL COOEEA</td></tr><tr><td>S25</td><td>(</td><td>22E</td><td>nqu</td><td>(9&#x27;58) 087</td><td>27E</td><td>urZ</td><td>2207</td><td>ANINE</td><td>967</td><td>() 977</td><td>22E</td><td>nqu</td><td>(7&#x27;98) 287</td><td>22E</td><td>uZ</td><td>2202</td><td>ATINNE</td></tr><tr><td>(mou) M mr</td><td>(%) u</td><td></td><td>Tra</td><td>(%) u</td><td>IN</td><td>Ire</td><td></td><td>ApmS</td><td>(o)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>2N</td><td></td><td></td><td>  </td><td></td><td>Jar</td><td></td><td>M ean</td><td>(%) u 2N</td><td>Tr</td><td></td><td>(%) u</td><td>IN</td><td>Ire</td><td>Jer</td><td>ApmS</td></tr><tr><td>09</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Se</td><td>S6I</td><td>nqu</td><td>6107</td><td>RSTE</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>ie   e SNTE</td></tr><tr><td>25</td><td>O0-II&#x27;0</td><td>SI0</td><td>961</td><td></td><td>927</td><td>EC</td><td>2000</td><td>HAH</td><td>$&#x27;6 S7</td><td>00&#x27;0-532 96&#x27;0-9&#x27;0</td><td>220</td><td>961</td><td>Oe</td><td>S61</td><td>nqu</td><td>2207 200</td><td>HAH</td></tr><tr><td>71</td><td>78&#x27;0-I90 ∠8&#x27;0-5&#x27;0</td><td>S9&#x27;0</td><td>947</td><td>FC pod</td><td>6L</td><td>Oe</td><td>2207</td><td>OMIIA</td><td>1I</td><td>$5-0</td><td>9∠0</td><td>927</td><td>FRC</td><td>927</td><td>EC</td><td>2007</td><td>7MZ</td></tr><tr><td>7E</td><td>∠1-90</td><td>990</td><td>E7</td><td>d</td><td>67</td><td></td><td>2202</td><td>Nepce</td><td></td><td></td><td>6∠0</td><td>E7</td><td>pod</td><td>6L</td><td>Oe</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>5.65</td><td>950-50</td><td>6&#x27;0 6I0</td><td>E7</td><td>RR</td><td>761</td><td>Yer</td><td>2000</td><td>NNNNN</td><td>8E7</td><td>85030</td><td>6I0</td><td>S61</td><td></td><td>761</td><td>Eer</td><td>2007</td><td>NNAN</td></tr><tr><td>8I</td><td>IE&#x27;0-II&#x27;0</td><td>8I&#x27;0</td><td>S61 $5</td><td>P</td><td>90I</td><td>nqu</td><td>2007</td><td>SuenH</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>RR</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>09</td><td>60-8&#x27;0</td><td>020</td><td>687</td><td>RR</td><td>687</td><td>CR</td><td>2200</td><td>HEETIH</td><td>8I</td><td>800-50</td><td>00</td><td>687</td><td>RR</td><td>687</td><td>CR</td><td>2007</td><td>HEITIH</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>$67</td><td>8&#x27;0-∠7&#x27;0</td><td>I9&#x27;0</td><td>∠91</td><td>E</td><td>891</td><td>VA</td><td>220Z</td><td>Betr</td></tr><tr><td>6&#x27;07</td><td>91&#x27;1-69&#x27;0</td><td>6&#x27;0</td><td>997</td><td>nqu</td><td>897</td><td>Rrea</td><td>2201</td><td>RR E.</td><td>6&#x27;07</td><td>∠21-6∠0</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>897</td><td>Rea</td><td>2201</td><td>RR ET</td></tr><tr><td>7E</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>MMENL</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>S97</td><td>qu</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>AMNNL</td></tr><tr><td>77</td><td>§8&#x27;0-IS&#x27;0 8E&#x27;0-91&#x27;0</td><td>990 570</td><td>782</td><td>EC</td><td>E81 SSS</td><td>OORE Rra</td><td>2007 2207</td><td>COEA ASND</td><td>bE 11</td><td>88&#x27;0-IS&#x27;0</td><td>∠9&#x27;0</td><td>782</td><td>EP</td><td>E81</td><td>ORE</td><td>2007 2000</td><td>COEA</td></tr><tr><td>$25</td><td>$8&#x27;0&#x27;0</td><td>89&#x27;0</td><td>9E 225</td><td>RR nqu</td><td>22E</td><td>2ez</td><td>2207</td><td>ATINE</td><td>967</td><td>69&#x27;0-61&#x27;0 98&#x27;0-6t&#x27;0</td><td>9E&#x27;0 S9&#x27;0</td><td>9E 225</td><td>RR</td><td>SSS 22E</td><td>Rra 2ez</td><td>2202</td><td>ASEND ANINE</td></tr><tr><td>(sou)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>Iqu</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>M mr</td><td>IDO %S6</td><td>HH</td><td>2N</td><td>TrL</td><td>IN</td><td>Ire</td><td>Jr</td><td>pnS</td><td>(ot) M rran</td><td>IDO %S6</td><td>HH</td><td>2N</td><td>TrL</td><td>IN</td><td>Ire</td><td>Jer</td></table>

<table><tr><td colspan="10">Independent review committe-ssessed overal response rate</td><td colspan="9">Investigator-assessed overall response rate</td></tr><tr><td>Study</td><td>Year</td><td>Treat1</td><td>N1</td><td>n(%)</td><td>Treat2</td><td>N2</td><td>n(%)</td><td>Median FU (months)</td><td>Study</td><td>Year</td><td>Treatl</td><td>N1</td><td>n(%)</td><td>Treat2</td><td>N2</td><td>n(%)</td><td>Median FU (months)</td></tr><tr><td>REACH</td><td>2010</td><td>FC</td><td>276</td><td>136 (49)</td><td>RFC</td><td>276</td><td>169 (61)</td><td>25</td><td>REACH</td><td>2010</td><td>FC</td><td>276</td><td>160 (58)</td><td>RFC</td><td>276</td><td>193 (69.9)</td><td>25</td></tr><tr><td>RESONATE 2014</td><td></td><td>Ibru</td><td>195</td><td>83 (42.6)</td><td>Ofa</td><td>196</td><td>8 (4.1)</td><td>9.4</td><td>RESONATE 2014</td><td></td><td>Ibru</td><td>195</td><td>136 (69.7)</td><td>Ofa</td><td>196</td><td>42 (21.4)</td><td>9.4</td></tr><tr><td>Ofa ofatumumab, PCb physician&#x27;s choice, R rituximab, Ven venetoclax, Zan zanubrutinib</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>

## Network Meta‑analysis

The treatment comparison networks used VenR as the reference regimen. Treatments B, F, and FA could not be compared to VenR for any of the outcomes because they were not connected to the main network, creating a separate network of two trials and three treatments. The same occurred for FC, FCR, and OFC (Fig. S2, Supple - mentary Material).

## Overall Survival

The main network for OS connected only 9 of the 15 evaluated treatments (Fig.  1a), indi - cating limited connectivity among interven - tions. Within this partially connected network, VenR demonstrated better survival outcomes when compared with standard regimens such as R (HR 0.16; 95% CI 0.03–0.74) and PCh (HR 0.17; 95% CI 0.04–0.81) (Fig.  2a). It also showed numerically superior, although not statistically signifcant, effects on mortality compared to Zan, Acala, Ibru, and Ofa.

## Progression‑Free Survival

The network of investigator-assessed PFS was identical to that of OS. In contrast, the net - work based on IRC assessment included only eight treatments, with R not connected to the network (Fig.  1a, b). In both IRC-PFS and inves - tigator-assessed PFS, VenR achieved HR below 0.20, supported by narrow confdence intervals, when compared with conventional treatments such as BR, Ofa, and PCh. The same applies to R only on the IRC-PFS network. VenR, in both PFS assessments, still obtained signifcantly favorable results compared to the monotherapies Ibru and Acala (Fig. 2b, c).

<!-- image-->

<!-- image-->

<!-- image-->  
Venetoclax; Zan: Zanubrutinib.  
Fig. 1 Network for outcomes assessed: a overall survival, progression-free survival (investigator), and serious adverse events; b progression-free survival (IRC); and c overall response rate (IRC and investigator-assessed)

## Overall Response Rate

The ASCEND study used the investigator’s choice as comparator, which included either idelalisib + R or BR. However, it did not report

<!-- image-->  
. Rituximab; Ven: Venetoclax; Zan: Zanubrutinib.

Fig. 2 a–f Forest plot for overall survival and progression-free survival outcomes in RR-CLL separate ORR results for BR. This led to a disconnection in the network structures for both IRC-PFS and OS. In the comparison network for ORR (both IRC and investigator-assessed), VenR was compared with only two additional treatments: BR and IbruBR (Fig. 1c). In the IRC-ORR-ORR network, VenR showed a signifcant difference only when compared with BR. For the investigator-assessed ORR, both BR and IbruBR presented signifcantly worse results than VenR (Fig. 2e, f).

Table 4 League table for overall survival outcome
<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Acala</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.09 [0.25; 4.76]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.22 [0.93; 1.61]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.66 [0.15; 2.86]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.92 [1.28; 2.86]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.56 [1.49; 4.35]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.7 [1.75; 4.17]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.43 [0.1; 1.89]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.94 [0.64; 1.37]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.92 [0.21; 3.94]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>BR</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.12 [0.26; 5]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.61 [0.51; 0.73]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.75 [0.39; 7.69]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.33 [0.5; 111.11]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.5 [0.55; 11.11]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.4 [0.33; 0.48]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.86 [0.19; 3.85]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.82 [0.62; 1.08]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.89 [0.20; 3.92]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Ibru</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.54 [0.12; 2.44]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.56 [1.18; 2.08]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.08 [1.33; 3.23]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.22 [1.59; 3.12]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.36 [0.08; 1.59]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.77 [0.6; 0.99]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.51 [0.35; 6.53]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.64 [1.37; 1.96]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.84 [0.41; 8.18]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>IbruBR</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.86 [0.63; 12.5]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3.85 [0.81; 20]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>4.17 [0.88; 20]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.66 [0.51; 0.85]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.41 [0.31; 6.25]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.52 [0.35; 0.78]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.57 [0.13; 2.58]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.64 [0.48; 0.85]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.35 [0.08; 1.59]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Ofa</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.33 [0.94; 1.89]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.43 [0.92; 2.22]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.23 [0.05; 1.04]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.49 [0.34; 0.72]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.39 [0.23; 0.67]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.43 [0.09; 2.01]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.48 [0.31; 0.75]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.26 [0.05; 1.24]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.75 [0.53; 1.06]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>PCh</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.06 [0.61; 1.85]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.17 [0.04; 0.81]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.37 [0.22; 0.62]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.37 [0.24; 0.57]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.40 [0.09; 1.83]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.45 [0.32; 0.63]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.24 [0.05; 1.13]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.70 [0.45; 1.09]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.94 [0.54; 1.64]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>R</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.16 [0.03; 0.74]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.35 [0.23; 0.53]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.30 [0.53; 9.96]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.50 [2.09; 2.99]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.80 [0.63; 12.48]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.52 [1.18; 1.97]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>4.38 [0.96; 20.01]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>5.84 [1.23; 27.73]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>6.23 [1.35; 28.81]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>VenR</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.17 [0.48; 10]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.06 [0.73; 1.56]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.16 [0.26; 5.21]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1.30 [1.01; 1.68]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.71 [0.16; 3.21]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.03 [1.39; 2.96]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.71 [1.62; 4.52]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.89 [1.89; 4.41]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.46 [0.10; 2.10]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Zan</td></tr></table>

Interpretation: column therapy compared with row therapy. Green cells represent signifcant reduction in mortality; blue cells represent signifcant increase in mortality, and white cells represent comparisons with no statistically signifcant diference  
Acala acalabrutinib, B bendamustine, Ibru ibrutinib, Ofa ofatumumab, PCh physician’s choice, R rituximab, Ven venetoclax, Zan zanubrutinib

## Time to Next Treatment

Only four studies included HR data for the TTNT, making it impossible to create a connected network using VenR as a reference (Table 2).

## Serious Adverse Events

For the safety outcome of SAEs, the network structure was the same as that used for OS and investigator-assessed PFS, with nine treatments included (Fig. 1a). VenR presented the second lowest risk of experiencing SAEs compared with all other therapies, although without statistical signifcance (Fig. 2d).

The results of all network comparisons are presented in Table 4 (OS) and Tables S6–S8 (Supplementary Material).

In this analysis, all treatment nodes were informed by only one study. As a result of the limited number of studies available for each comparison, it was not possible to calculate global heterogeneity and incoherence measures for the network. Statistical estimation of between-study variance (τ2), inconsistency (e.g., using node-splitting or design-by-treatment interaction models), and Cochran’s Q-statistic require a suffcient number of studies contributing to both direct and indirect comparisons.

## P‑Score and Rankograms

P-scores were used to summarize the probability that a treatment ranks better in terms of risk reduction across the network. For OS, the treatments with the highest P-scores were VenR and IbruBR, while R and PCh had the lowest (Fig. 3). For PFS, the P-score ranking confrmed the same pattern, with Zan, VenR, and IbruBR consistently among the most favorable treatments. In contrast, PCh and Ofa ranked lowest, indicating a lower probability of reducing PFS risk. In both ORR assessments, the ranking was identical: VenR had a 99% probability of being the most effective treatment, while BR had 0%. Regarding safety (SAEs), BR, VenR, and IbruBR were most often associated with lower odds of adverse events, while Ibru and Acala performed worst in this outcome.

Rankograms were also generated to visually represent the relative ranking probabilities of each treatment across the network and confrmed the results observed in the P-score (Figs. S3–S7). They offer an intuitive overview of the distribution of rankings derived from the

<!-- image-->  
Zanubrutinib.  
Fig. 3 P-scores per outcome and treatment (random efects)

NMA and are particularly useful for illustrating the uncertainty around treatment hierarchies.

## Risk of Bias and Certainty of Evidence

Risks of bias analysis were performed for each outcome assessed in all studies included in the systematic review (even those outside the NMA main network). The results are presented in Table S9 (Supplementary Material). For the outcomes OS, IRC-PFS, and IRC-ORR, approximately half of the studies presented a low risk of bias, while for SAES, 82% presented some concerns, mainly due to the open-label nature of the studies. Investigator-assessed PFS and ORR were the outcomes associated with the most studies with high risk or some concerns regarding the risk of bias, mainly due to the measurement of the outcome or randomization process.

The certainty of the evidence was assessed in the main network for each outcome, focusing on comparisons against VenR. For all treatments except BR, effect estimates were based exclusively on indirect comparisons, since no direct evidence was available. In the case of BR, the network estimate exactly matched the result of the direct comparison.

Table S10 (Supplementary Material) presents the absolute effects of each comparison and the certainty of evidence assessed using the GRADE-NMA approach. The best certainty of evidence results for all outcomes were obtained for the comparison versus BR, presenting high certainty of evidence for OS, IRC-PFS, and IRC-ORR. For most comparisons of OS, the result was very low certainty of evidence, mainly due to risk of bias, intransitivity, and imprecision. For IRC-PFS, Acala, Ibru, and IbruBR were supported by moderate certainty of evidence, whereas for investigator-assessed PFS, most comparisons presented low certainty of evidence, all having a penalty for intransitivity. SAEs were generally supported by low or very low certainty of evidence across most comparisons, due to risk of bias and imprecision. For ORR, as the network was small, involving only three treatments, two of which were directly compared, the certainty of evidence versus BR was greater than versus IbruBR, considered of low certainty for both IRC and investigator-assessed analysis.

## Sensitivity Analysis

Since it was not possible to calculate the heterogeneity between studies for each outcome, sensitivity analyses with removal of studies were not performed. Meta-regression models were performed to understand the infuence of clinical or methodological characteristics on the estimated effects.

For the OS meta-regression analyses, the model explained all heterogeneity between studies $( R ^ { \bar { 2 } } { = } 1 0 0 \% )$ , with no residual heterogeneity observed $( I ^ { 2 } = 0 \% )$ . Age was found to be a signifcant effect modifer, while bulky disease was associated with worse outcomes. The proportion of patients with ≥ 3 prior therapies was inversely associated with treatment effect. In both PFS analyses, the model showed substantial residual heterogeneity $\left( I ^ { 2 } = 9 9 \% \right)$ . For investigator-assessed PFS, the model showed signifcance for the covariates “≥ 3 prior therapies” and “bulky disease”, while for IRC-PFS, none of the covariates reached conventional statistical signifcance.

## DISCUSSION

This systematic review and NMA aimed to evaluate the effcacy and safety of therapies approved in Brazil for ${ \mathrm { R R - C L L } } ,$ using VenR as the reference treatment within the network.

For OS, VenR showed numerically superior estimates compared to all other therapies evaluated. VenR was statistically signifcant versus ${ \mathrm { R } } ,$ PCh, BR, and IbruBR. Similar superiority was observed for PFS, with statistically non-signifcant differences only in comparisons with Zan (both IRC and investigator-assessed) and IbruBR (for IRC-PFS). For ORR, the network was limited because of the lack of studies connecting the full treatment network, restricting comparisons to BR and IbruBR. VenR demonstrated superior results in the investigator-assessed outcome versus both treatments, but for IRC-ORR data, the difference was signifcant only when compared to BR. In terms of safety, VenR ranked second in P-score estimates and had a similar frequency of SAEs compared to other treatments.

The fndings of this NMA are in line with prior systematic reviews and meta-analyses that have shown advantages of regimens containing BTKis and BCL2 inhibitors over traditional chemoimmunotherapy [12, 39–41]. As our review focused exclusively on treatments approved in Brazil, trials involving duvelisib, ublituximab, and idelalisib—whether in monotherapy or combination—were excluded. Including these treatments might have led to different comparative results with VenR. However, a recent systematic review incorporating such treatments reported HRs for OS and PFS that were very similar to those observed in our NMA [12]. In only two comparisons (Acala and Ibru for PFS) were our confdence intervals narrower, yielding statistically significant differences favoring VenR. Another NMA assessing safety outcomes also showed similar results, with VenR reducing SAE risk compared to most comparators, although without statistical signifcance [13]. P-score rankings in our analysis also aligned with previous NMAs, placing VenR as the top candidate for OS and second in both investigator-assessed PFS and SAE rankings.

These results are also aligned with current clinical practice guidelines, including those from the Brazilian Association of Hematology and Hemotherapy (ABHH) and the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL), which recommend VenR and BTKis as preferred therapies for patients with RR-CLL previously treated with chemoimmunotherapy. The Brazilian CLL Group further emphasizes a sequential therapeutic approach based on prior treatment and molecular features, without asserting superiority of one agent over another. Our fndings reinforce this view, with VenR and BTKis showing the best comparative performance in both effcacy and safety outcomes, maintaining favorable positions in beneft probability rankings.

Although our eligibility criteria included all therapies approved in Brazil, six treatments (B, F, FA, FC, FCR, and OFC) could not be incorporated into the main network because of lack of connecting trials. Estimates for these treatments versus VenR were obtained only through the PCh arm, which included some of them. They could not be included in the NMAs in the arm that was called PCh, because the studies that compared them made head-to-head comparisons between themselves, and all would be included in PCh. Many of these regimens are still used in the Brazilian Public Healthcare System (SUS), and the lack of indirect comparisons with VenR makes it diffcult to review a national treatment protocol.

Analyses of most outcomes included several studies at high risk of bias. Although sensitivity analyses excluding studies at high risk of bias were planned, they were not performed because of potential disruption of the core network and the reduced number of comparable treatments. Sensitivity analyses addressing between-study heterogeneity were also not possible, as most treatment nodes were informed by single trials. The statistical consistency of the network was maintained owing to its linear structure; however, the limited number of direct comparisons precluded formal incoherence testing. The inability to assess heterogeneity or inconsistency limits the certainty of network estimates, as it prevents confrmation of the coherence of indirect evidence. Thus, confdence in treatment rankings is reduced, and P-scores and rankograms should be interpreted cautiously.

It is important to highlight that, except for the comparison with BR, all estimates involving VenR were derived from indirect comparisons. According to the GRADE NMA framework, differences in baseline population characteristics led to concerns of intransitivity in several of these comparisons, resulting in low to very low certainty ratings for many estimates. Nevertheless, the consistency between network estimates and their derived rankings supports the interpretation of a relative advantage of VenR over most therapies approved in Brazil.

Meta-regression results suggest that certain study characteristics—such as age, disease burden, and treatment history—may infuence relative treatment effects; however, the inability to test these covariates within stratifed subnetworks limits the strength of inference regarding effect modifcation.

Several strengths should be highlighted in this study. The NMA methodology for each outcome was grounded in recommendations from the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. The specifc focus on treatments currently approved for use in Brazil is a key factor, as it increases the local applicability and clinical relevance of the fndings for therapeutic decision-making in the country. Although our network only included products registered for commercialization in Brazil, its estimates were consistent with other NMAs including such regimens and demonstrated coherence across clinical outcomes [12, 13, 39]. Our analyses included both investigator-assessed and IRC assessed PFS and ORR, which allowed for greater internal consistency of the results presented.

The fndings should be interpreted with caution, considering the study also has limitations. First, although all relevant VenR comparators approved in Brazil were searched, not all could be included in the network because of lack of connecting evidence. Regimens based on F, B monotherapy, and cyclophosphamide were excluded from the primary network. Because of that disconnection from the main network, effect estimates and rankings can only be interpreted within the subset of treatments that formed a connected evidence base. A possible alternative would be the application of a component network meta-analysis model, which decomposes combination therapies into their individual components, allowing for estimation of marginal effects of shared elements. Second, study populations were heterogeneous, and many pairwise comparisons lacked direct evidence. Third, our NMA did not stratify analyses by genetic profles, such as TP53 mutations or 17p deletions, factors known to confer poorer prognosis and lower responses to chemoimmunotherapy. Nevertheless, our fndings are consistent with NMAs dedicated to these high-risk subgroups [14, 42], which have also demonstrated better effcacy of BTKis and VenR compared to alkylator- or purine-based regimens. Even though genotypic-specifc inferences are not possible from our data, the consistency across different risk strata supports the broad clinical beneft of these targeted therapies in RR-CLL. Finally, although NMA is an appropriate analytical method for RR-CLL owing to the multiplicity of available treatments, our network results did not mathematically integrate direct and indirect comparisons, as most treatment contrasts were informed by single studies. As such, network estimates were identical to either the direct or indirect effect, without formal synthesis between them.

In conclusion, VenR consistently ranked among the most effective options across the outcomes analyzed. This NMA provides evidence to support rational therapeutic choices for RR-CLL in Brazil, highlighting VenR and BTK inhibitors as leading treatment options across diverse clinical scenarios. Our fndings should be interpreted with caution given the methodological limitations and the lack of direct comparisons for several outcomes.

Author Contributions. Conceptualization and design: Bruno M Barros, Pedro Vitor P Lima, Natália B Santoni, Andreas Duva; Acquisition of data: Bruno M Barros, Márcia Gisele S Costa, Marcelo G Correia, Carlos S Magliano; Formal analysis and investigation: Bruno M Barros, Márcia Gisele S Costa, Marcelo G Correia, Carlos S Magliano; Writing—original draft preparation: Bruno M Barros, Márcia Gisele S Costa, Marcelo G Correia; Review and editing: Carlos S Magliano, Pedro Vitor P Lima, Natália B Santoni, Andreas Duva, Maria Isabel Duran; Funding acquisition: Pedro Vitor P Lima, Natália B Santoni, Andreas Duva; Resources: Pedro Vitor P Lima, Natália B Santoni, Andreas Duva; Supervision: Carlos S Magliano, Maria Isabel Duran.

Funding. This study was funded by AbbVie, which contributed to the study design and reviewed the manuscript for accuracy, without involvement in data collection, analysis, interpretation, or writing. The journal’s Rapid Service Fee was funded by Abbvie.

Data Availability. All data generated or analyzed during this study are included in this published article/as supplementary information fles.

## Declarations

Confict of Interest. Bruno M Barros, Márcia Gisele S Costa, Marcelo G Correia and Carlos S Magliano declare that they received fnancial support from AbbVie for the development of this network meta-analysis. Pedro Vitor P Lima, Natália B Santoni, Andreas Duva, Maria Isabel Duran hold employment with AbbVie. Maria Isabel Duran is currently affliated with AbbVie Inc, Chicago, USA; at the time of the study she was affliated with AbbVie Brasil.

Ethical Approval. This article is based on previously conducted studies and does not contain any new studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the authors, therefore did not require ethical approval.

Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License, which permits any non-commercial use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativeco mmons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/.

## REFERENCES

1. Mukkamalla SKR, Taneja A, Malipeddi D, Master SR. Chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In: StatPearls.

[Updated 2023 Mar 7]. Treasure Island: StatPearls Publishing; 2025. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ books/NBK470433/. Accessed Aug 21, 2025.

2. Scheffold A, Jebaraj BMC, Stilgenbauer S. Venetoclax: targeting BCL2 in hematological cancers. 2018:215–242. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319- 91439-8_11.

3. Roberts AW, Stilgenbauer S, Seymour JF, Huang DCS. Venetoclax in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Clin Cancer Res. 2017;23(16):4527–33. https://doi.org/10. 1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0955.

4. US Food and Drug Administration. Venclexta (venetoclax tablets). United States prescribing information. Published online May 2019. https:// www.accessdata.fda.gov/drugsatfda_docs/label/ 2019/208573s013lbl.pdf. Accessed Aug 21, 2025.

5. European Medicines Agency - Science Medicines Health. Venclyxto (venetoclax). Published online June 2021. https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/docum ents/overview/venclyxto-epar-medicine-overview_ en.pdf. Accessed Aug 21, 2025.

6. Mato AR, Nabhan C, Thompson MC, et al. Toxicities and outcomes of 616 ibrutinib-treated patients in the United States: a real-world analysis. Haematologica. 2018;103(5):874–9. https://doi.org/10. 3324/haematol.2017.182907.

7. Gribben JG, Bosch F, Cymbalista F, et al. Optimising outcomes for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia on ibrutinib therapy: European recommendations for clinical practice. Br J Haematol. 2018;180(5):666–79. https://doi.org/10.1111/ bjh.15080.

8. Stilgenbauer S, Furman RR, Zent CS. Management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2015;35:164–75. https://doi. org/10.14694/EdBook_AM.2015.35.164.

9. Chiattone CS, Marques FDM, Buccheri V, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia: 2025 recommendations of the Brazilian Group of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia of the Brazilian Association of Hematology and Hemotherapy (ABHH). Hematol Transfus Cell Ther. 2025;47(2):103822. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.htct. 2025.103822.

10. Monica M, Reczek M, Kawalec P. Network metaanalysis of novel targeted therapies for relapsed/ refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2024. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 17588359241263710.

11. Monica M, Reczek M, Kawalec P. Comparative safety of novel targeted therapies in relapsed/

refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a network meta-analysis. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2024. https://doi.org/10.1177/17588359241285988.

12. Shadman M, Brown JR, Mohseninejad L, et  al. Comparative efficacy of Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors in high-risk relapsed/refractory CLL: a network meta-analysis. Blood Adv. 2025;9(12):2863–70. https://doi.org/10.1182/ bloodadvances.2024014523.

13. Sterne JAC, Savović J, Page MJ, et  al. RoB 2: a revised tool for assessing risk of bias in randomised trials. BMJ. 2019;366:l4898.

14. Puhan MA, Schünemann HJ, Murad MH, et al. A GRADE Working Group approach for rating the quality of treatment effect estimates from network meta-analysis. BMJ. 2014;349:g5630.

15. Brown JR, Eichhorst B, Lamanna N, et al. Sustained beneft of zanubrutinib vs ibrutinib in patients with R/R CLL/SLL: fnal comparative analysis of ALPINE. Blood. 2024;144(26):2706–17. https://doi. org/10.1182/blood.2024024667.

16. Brown JR, Eichhorst B, Hillmen P, et  al. Zanubrutinib or ibrutinib in relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl J Med. 2023;388(4):319–32. https://doi.org/10.1056/ NEJMoa2211582.

17. Seymour JF, Kipps TJ, Eichhorst BF, et al. Enduring undetectable MRD and updated outcomes in relapsed/refractory CLL after fixed-duration venetoclax-rituximab. Blood. 2022;140(8):839–50. https://doi.org/10.1182/blood.2021015014.

18. Byrd JC, Brown JR, O’Brien S, et al. Ibrutinib versus ofatumumab in previously treated chronic lymphoid leukemia. N Engl J Med. 2014;371(3):213– 23. https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1400376.

19. Byrd JC, Hillmen P, O’Brien S, et  al. Long-term follow-up of the RESONATE phase 3 trial of ibrutinib vs ofatumumab. Blood. 2019;133(19):2031–42. https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2018-08-870238.

20. Byrd JC, Hillmen P, Ghia P, et  al. Acalabrutinib versus ibrutinib in previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia: results of the frst randomized phase III trial. J Clin Oncol. 2021;39(31):3441–52. https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO.21.01210.

21. Chanan-Khan A, Cramer P, Demirkan F, et al. Ibrutinib combined with bendamustine and rituximab compared with placebo, bendamustine, and rituximab for previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma (HELIOS): a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol. 2016;17(2):200–11. https:// doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00465-9.

22. Elter T, Gercheva-Kyuchukova L, Pylylpenko H, et  al. Fludarabine plus alemtuzumab versus fludarabine alone in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: a randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2011;12(13):1204–13. https://doi.org/10.1016/ S1470-2045(11)70242-X.

23. Fraser G, Cramer P, Demirkan F, et al. Updated results from the phase  3 HELIOS study of ibrutinib, bendamustine, and rituximab in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Leukemia. 2019;33(4):969–80. https:// doi.org/10.1038/s41375-018-0276-9.

24. Brown JR, Hillmen P, O’Brien S, et al. Extended follow-up and impact of high-risk prognostic factors from the phase 3 RESONATE study in patients with previously treated CLL/SLL. Leukemia. 2018;32(1):83–91. https://doi.org/10.1038/leu. 2017.175.

25. Seymour JF, Kipps TJ, Eichhorst B, et  al. Venetoclax–rituximab in relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. N Engl J Med. 2018;378(12):1107–20. https://doi.org/10.1056/ NEJMoa1713976.

26. Fraser GAM, Chanan-Khan A, Demirkan F, et al. Final 5-year fndings from the phase 3 HELIOS study of ibrutinib plus bendamustine and rituximab in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma. Leuk Lymphoma. 2020;61(13):3188–97. https://doi.org/10.1080/10428194.2020.1795159.

27. Grosicki S, Lech-Maranda E, Govind Babu K, et al. A 5-year follow-up to evaluate the effcacy and safety of ofatumumab added to fudarabine and cyclophosphamide in patients with relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia: fnal analysis of the COMPLEMENT 2 trial. Leuk Lymphoma. 2020;61(7):1748–51. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 10428194.2020.1732960.

28. Ghia P, Pluta A, Wach M, et al. ASCEND: phase III, randomized trial of acalabrutinib versus idelalisib plus rituximab or bendamustine plus rituximab in relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. J Clin Oncol. 2020;38(25):2849–61. https:// doi.org/10.1200/JCO.19.03355.

29. Ghia P, Pluta A, Wach M, et al. Acalabrutinib versus investigator’s choice in relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia: fnal ASCEND trial results. Hemasphere. 2022;6(12):e801. https://doi. org/10.1097/HS9.0000000000000801.

30. Huang X, Qiu L, Jin J, et al. Ibrutinib versus rituximab in relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma: a randomized, open-label phase 3 study. Cancer Med.

2018;7(4):1043–55. https://doi.org/10.1002/cam4. 1337.

31. Kater AP, Seymour JF, Hillmen P, et al. Fixed duration of venetoclax-rituximab in relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia eradicates minimal residual disease and prolongs survival: post-treatment follow-up of the MURANO phase III study. J Clin Oncol. 2019;37(4):269–77. https://doi.org/ 10.1200/JCO.18.01580.

32. Kater AP, Wu JQ, Kipps T, et al. Venetoclax plus rituximab in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia: 4-year results and evaluation of impact of genomic complexity and gene mutations from the MURANO phase III study. J Clin Oncol. 2020;38(34):4042–54. https://doi.org/10.1200/ JCO.20.00948.

33. Miklos U, Strugov V, Lewerin C, et al. Five-year survival follow-up of a phase III randomised trial comparing ofatumumab versus physicians’ choice for bulky fudarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia: a short report. Br J Haematol. 2020;189(4):689–93. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjh. 16429.

34. Munir T, Brown JR, O’Brien S, et  al. Final analysis from RESONATE: up to six years of follow-up on ibrutinib in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma. Am J Hematol. 2019;94(12):1353–63. https://doi.org/10.1002/ajh. 25638.

35. Niederle N, Megdenberg D, Balleisen L, et al. Bendamustine compared to fudarabine as second-line treatment in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Ann Hematol. 2013;92(5):653–60. https://doi.org/10. 1007/s00277-012-1660-6.

36. Österborg A, Udvardy M, Zaritskey A, et  al. Phase III, randomized study of ofatumumab versus physicians’ choice of therapy and standard versus extended-length ofatumumab in patients with bulky fudarabine-refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Leuk Lymphoma. 2016;57(9):2037–46. https://doi.org/10.3109/10428194.2015.1122783.

37. Robak T, Warzocha K, Govind Babu K, et al. Ofatumumab plus fudarabine and cyclophosphamide in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia: results from the COMPLEMENT 2 trial. Leuk Lymphoma. 2017;58(5):1084–93. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 10428194.2016.1233536.

38. Robak T, Dmoszynska A, Solal-Céligny P, et  al. Rituximab plus fudarabine and cyclophosphamide prolongs progression-free survival compared with fudarabine and cyclophosphamide alone in previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

J Clin Oncol. 2010;28(10):1756–65. https://doi. org/10.1200/JCO.2009.26.4556.

39. Chen PH, Ho CL, Lin C, et  al. Treatment outcomes of novel targeted agents in relapse/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. J Clin Med. 2019;8(5):737. https://doi.org/10.3390/jcm80 50737.

40. Kim J, Cho J, Lim JH, Lee MH. Relative efficacy of systemic treatments for patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a network meta-analysis according to 17p deletion/TP53 mutations. Blood Res. 2025;60(1):1. https://doi.org/10.1007/s44313-024-00038-2.

41. Sorensen S, Wildgust M, Sengupta N, et al. Indirect treatment comparisons of ibrutinib versus

physician’s choice and idelalisib plus ofatumumab in patients with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Clin Ther. 2017;39(1):178-189. e5. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinthera.2016.12. 001.

42. Molica S, Giannarelli D, Mirabelli R, Levato L, Shanafelt TD. The magnitude of improvement in progression-free survival with targeted therapy in relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia based on prognostic risk category: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Leuk Lymphoma. 2019;60(7):1644–9. https://doi.org/10.1080/10428 194.2018.1543882.