Article

# Simple Synthetic Approach to N-(Pyridin-2-yl)imidates from Nitrostyrenes and 2-Aminopyridines via the N-(Pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles as Intermediates

Andriani G. Chaidali and Ioannis N. Lykakis \*

Department of Chemistry, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, University Campus, 54124 Thessaloniki, Greece; chaidali.and@gmail.com

\* Correspondence: lykakis@chem.auth.gr

Abstract: A facile, green, synthetic protocol of several substituted N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates from nitrostyrenes and 2-aminopyridines via the corresponding N-(pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles as intermediates is reported. The reaction process involved the in situ formation of the corresponding α-iminontriles under heterogeneous Lewis acid catalysis in the presence of $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ . Subsequently, α-iminonitriles were selectively transformed into the desired N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates under ambient conditions and in the presence of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ in alcoholic media. Under these conditions, 1,2- and 1,3-propanediols also led to the corresponding mono-substituted imidates at room temperature. The present synthetic protocol was also developed on one mmol scale, providing access to this important scaffold. A preliminary synthetic application of the present N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates was carried out for their facile conversion into the N-heterocycles 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-4,5-dihydro-1Himidazole and 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine in the presence of the corresponding ethylenediamine and 1,3-diaminopropane.

## check for pdates

Citation: Chaidali, A.G.; Lykakis, I.N. Simple Synthetic Approach to N-(Pyridin-2-yl)imidates from Nitrostyrenes and 2-Aminopyridines via the N-(Pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles as Intermediates. Molecules 2023, 28, 3321. https://doi.org/10.3390/ molecules28083321

Academic Editors: Alexey M. Starosotnikov, Maxim A. Bastrakov and Igor L. Dalinger

Received: 13 March 2023   
Revised: 6 April 2023   
Accepted: 7 April 2023   
Published: 9 April 2023

<!-- image-->

Copyright: © 2023 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https:// creativecommons.org/licenses/by/ 4.0/).

Keywords: imidates; iminonitriles; nitrostyrenes; 2-aminopyridine; N-heterocycles

## 1. Introduction

Imidates are considered to be one of the most important organic patterns due to their varied electronic nature [1,2]. In general, imidates serve as powerful molecules of electrophiles and nucleophiles in reactions (Figure 1) with several applications not only in structure functionalization, e.g., the synthesis of esters, amides, and amidines, but also in the synthesis of heterocyclic molecules [3]. For example, reported studies [4] on the successful transformation of imidates into a series of N-heterocycles, such as imidazolines, (benz)imidazoles, (benz)oxazoles, oxazolines, thiazolines, and azines, were summarized recently (Figure S1) [5]. Thus, it is interesting to note here that the last decade has witnessed the development of versatile synthetic methodologies towards their one-step synthesis using suitable imidate precursors. This synthetic strategy is still interesting and attractive, because it enables the formation of C-C and C-N bonds in one step with the nitrogen atom that comes from the imidates present in the final N-heterocyclic structure. Imidates have been applied in the synthesis of oxazoline-fused sugars from corresponding glycosylimidates [6,7] and a new C-C bond between sugars and aromatic compounds can be formed using glycosyl-trichloroacetimidates [8].

The most common synthetic process of the imidate moiety is the transformation of nitriles under acidic (a Pinner reaction) or basic conditions in alcoholic media (Figure 1A,B) [9–14]. For Pinner reactions, several methodologies have been reported, including the reactions of imidoyl halides with alkoxides and phenoxides or transesterification of imidates (Figure 1C) [2,15]; the conversion of amides to imidates in the presence of Meerwein reagents or diazocompounds (Figure 1D) [2,16–18]; reactions of amino compounds with ortho-esters under acidic conditions (Figure 1E) [2]; the direct N-alkylation of imidates, using amino acid derivatives (Figure 1F) [2]; pericyclic reactions of unsaturated N-allyl ynamides, triynes,unsaturated N-allyl ynamides, triynes, tetraynes, or ring openings of N,N- and N,Otetraynes, or ring openings of N,N- and N,O- heterocyclic compounds (Figure 1G) [19–22];heterocyclic compounds (Figure 1G) [19–22]; and syntheses from metal complexes and and syntheses from metal complexes and organometallic compounds [2].organometallic compounds [2].

<!-- image-->

RCN + R"OH  
<!-- image-->  
Figure 1. Synthetic methodologies (A–G) of imidates.Figure 1. Synthetic methodologies (A–G) of imidates.

To date, the emphasis in research has been on developing new, efficient, and “green” To date, the emphasis in research has been on developing new, efficient, and “green” methods for the conversion of α-iminonitriles to valuable imidates. To the best of our methods for the conversion of α-iminonitriles to valuable imidates. To the best of our knowledge, only specific examples with limited applicability on the synthesis of N-knowledge, only specific examples with limited applicability on the synthesis of N-(pyridin-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates have been reported (Scheme 1). In the literature, methyl (Z)-N-2-yl)imidates have been reported (Scheme 1). In the literature, methyl (Z)-N-(pyridin-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidate was the only example observed in an equimolar ratio with the 2-yl)benzimidate was the only example observed in an equimolar ratio with the correcorresponding amide under basic conditions in aqueous media (NaOH, Msponding amide under basic conditions in aqueous media (NaOH, $\mathrm { M e O H } / \mathrm { H } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } { = } 1 / 1 )$ initially starting from α-iminonitrile [23]. Recently, N-benzothiazolo-imines have been transformed into the corresponding methoxy imidates catalyzed by carbenes in the transformed into the corresponding methoxy imidates catalyzed by carbenes in the presence of sodium pyruvate, under oxidative conditions. Via this synthetic approach, only one example of N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidate has been presented [24]. Given the importance of this type of transformation and in terms of sustainability, the use of ambient and more continues to be a long-standing goal of chemical research. In light of our ongoing research eco-friendly heterogeneous conditions for the synthesis of substituted imidates continues directions for developing sustainable processes to construct N-heterocyclic organic to be a long-standing goal of chemical research. In light of our ongoing research direcmolecules of high biological interest [25–30], herein we report the synthesis of a library of tions for developing sustainable processes to construct N-heterocyclic organic molecules of substituted N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates from the corresponding N-(pyridin-2-high biological interest [25–30], herein we report the synthesis of a library of substituted Nyl)iminonitriles in the presence of Cs2CO3 and alcoholic media at ambient conditions (pyridin-2-yl)imidates from the corresponding N-(pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles in the presence (of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ ). Subsequently, the starting N-(pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles were synthesized via and alcoholic media at ambient conditions (Scheme 1). Subsequently, the starting a new heterogeneous catalytic process using Al2O3 in 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) (Scheme N-(pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles were synthesized via a new heterogeneous catalytic process 1). Tusing $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ e present protocol is timely and of high interest, as it has a selective and in 1,2-dichloroethane (DCE) (Scheme 1). Thus, the present protocol is timely sustainable synthetic character permiĴing the further diversification of the initial and of high interest, as it has a selective and sustainable synthetic character permitting the further diversification of the initial synthesized N-(pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles libraries and giving us access to the synthetic, valuable substituted N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates.

<!-- image-->  
etic approaches to N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates [23,24].Scheme 1. Synthetic approaches to N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates [23,24].

## Discussion2. Results and Discussion

## 2.1. Evaluation of the Reaction Conditions

To optimize the reaction conditions, (Z)-4-methyl-N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl cyanide (1a) was synthesized and selected as the model substrate. So far, the synthesis of N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl cyanides from nitrostyrenes and 2-aminopyridine, using $\mathrm { C e } ( \mathrm { O T f } ) _ { 3 }$ as catalyst in toluene and at $1 2 0 ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C } ,$ has been reported [31]. Herein, we developed a facile and talyst in toluene and at 120 °C, has been reported [31]. Herein, we developed green procedure for the selective synthesis of the desired α-iminonitriles by the reaction of een procedure for the selective synthesis of the d2-aminopyridine and nitrostyrene in the presence of $\mathrm { { A l } } _ { 2 } \mathrm { { O } } _ { 3 }$ α-iminonitriles by and DCE as solvents (see Materi-2-aminopyridine and nitrostyrene in the presence of Al2O3 and DCE as als and Methods part for details). According to the literature previous work [31], herein, aluaterials and Methods part for details). According to the literature previous mina is initially catalyzing the Michael addition of 2-aminopyridine to nitrostyrene [32–34], in, alumina is initially catalyzing the Michael addition of 2-aminopyridine leading to an intermediate enamine that further undergoes a proton transfer, dehydration, e [32–34], leading to an intermediate enamine that further undergoes a and [1,5]-H sigmatropic rearrangement to produce the final α-iminonitrile product. Thus, r, dehydration, and [1,5]-H sigmatropic rearrangement to produce the final using the present procedure, the synthesized 1a was determined and characterized by product. Thus, using the present procedure, the synthesized 1a was an HRMS analysis and IR spectroscopy, as described in Figure S2, with the characteristic d characterized by an HRMS analysis and IR spectroscopy, as described in absorbance of the nitrile group at ca. 2200 nm. All the spectroscopic data are in agreeh the characteristic absorbance of the nitrile group at ca. 2200 nm. All the ment with those reported in the literature [31]. After that, control experiments using 1a data are in agreement with those reported in the literature [31]. After that, (0.1 mmol) in MeOH (1 mL) in the presence of different bases were performed and the ments using 1a (0.1 mmol) in MeOH (1 mL) in the presenresults are summarized in Table 1. Among the used bases, ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ erent bases and DBU were found to d and the results are summarized in Table 1. Among the used bases, Cs COpromote the studied transformation within 4 h and with the quantitative transformation e found to promote the studied transformation within 4 h and with the of 1a to the desired methyl (Z)-4-methyl-N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidate 2aa (Table 1, entries 7 and 10). Byproducts such as amide 3a, ester 4a and 5a, and the starting amine 4 were observed in significant amounts in the case of tBuOK or ${ \mathrm { K } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ (Table 1, entries 3, 4, and 13). Similar results were observed when there was a lower amount of DBU (one equiv.) in the presence of molecular sieves or under an $\mathrm { O } _ { 2 }$ atmosphere (Table 1, entries 11 and 12). NaOH was found to promote the developed transformation; however, the corresponding amide BU (one equiv.) in the presence of molecular sieves or under an O23a was detected in a 6% yield (Table 1, entry 14). It is worth noting that in the absence of a base, only a 18% yield was measured (Table 1, entry 15). Further increases in theowever, the corresponding amide 3a was detected in a 6% yield (Table 1, entry temperature $( 5 0 ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C } )$ did not lead to significant increases in the desired product 2aa’s yieldbsence of a base, only a 18% yield was measured (Table (Table 1, entry 16); however, at $8 0 ~ ^ { \circ } C ,$ 5a and 6a were formed as major products (Table 1, entry 17). All reactions were monitored by TLC and the products were characterized by 1H NMR spectroscopy.

Table 1. Conditions and different bases evaluation for the transformation of 1a to 2aa in the presence of MeOH.itions and d

<!-- image-->

<table><tr><td></td><td></td><td colspan="8">Products (%) [b]</td></tr><tr><td>Entry</td><td>Base (eq.) [a]</td><td>Time (h)</td><td>1a</td><td>2aa</td><td>3a</td><td>4</td><td>5a</td><td></td><td>6a</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>Et3N (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>50</td><td>50</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td></td><td></td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Imidazole (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>87</td><td>13</td><td></td><td></td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>tBuOK (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>70</td><td></td><td></td><td>10</td><td>3</td><td>7</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>tBuOK (2)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>90</td><td></td><td></td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>AcONa (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>62</td><td>38</td><td></td><td></td><td>-</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>AcONa (2)</td><td>4</td><td>58</td><td>42</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>DBU (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>100</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>DBU (2)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>100</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>NaHCO3 (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>36</td><td>56</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Cs2CO3 (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>100</td><td></td><td></td><td>-</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>11 [c]</td><td>Cs2CO3 (1)</td><td>4</td><td></td><td>92</td><td></td><td></td><td>3</td><td>2</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>12 [d]</td><td>Cs2CO3 (1)</td><td>4</td><td></td><td>91</td><td></td><td></td><td>3</td><td>1</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>K2CO3 (1.5)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>91</td><td></td><td></td><td>3</td><td>1</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>NaOH (1)</td><td>4</td><td>-</td><td>94</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td></td><td>4</td><td>82</td><td>18</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>16 [e]</td><td></td><td>24</td><td>51</td><td>49</td><td></td><td></td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>17 [f]</td><td></td><td>24</td><td>-</td><td>10</td><td></td><td></td><td>45</td><td>10</td><td>35</td></tr></table>

[a] Conditions: 1a (0,1 mmol), MeOH (1 mL), room temperature. [b] Yields measured by 1H NMR based on the - 24 - 10 - 45 10 35addition of specific amount of 1,3-dimethoxybenzene as internal standard. [c] Molecular Sieves. [d] $\mathrm { O } _ { 2 }$ atmosphere. : 1a (0,1 mmol)[e] Temperature $= 5 0 ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C } . ^ { \mathrm { [ f ] } }$ 1 mL), room temperTemperature = 80 ◦C.

here. [e] Temperature = 50 °C. [f] Temperature = 80 °C.To study further the present transformation, 0.1 mmol of 1a were added into different alcoholic solvents, such as ethanol (EtOH), 1-propanol (PrOH), and 1-butanol $( \mathrm { B u O H } )$ , and y further the present transformation, 0.1 mmol of 1a were added into differenthe reactions were performed in the presence of different equiv. of the ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ and DBU lvents, such as ethanol (EtOH), 1-propanol (PrOH), and 1-butanol (BuOH), (Tables S1–S3). In all cases, the corresponding imidates 2ab, 2ac, 2ad, and 2ae were formed tions were performed in the presence of diin high yields. The optimum amount of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ 2 3 was found to be between one and two equiv. based on the amount of 1a. Under a lower amount of the base, no reaction completion was observed, and significant amounts of the amide 3a were measured (Tables S1–S3). In the case of BuOH, a higher temperature was required $( 5 0 ~ ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C } )$ for reaction completion and for better solubility of the base ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ (see Table S3). The results under optimum conditions, two equiv. of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ and 24 h, from the experiments in alcoholic solvents are presented in Figure S3. It can be concluded that bulkier alcohols could lead to a decrease in the yield of the desired imidates, because the nucleophilic attack of the alcohol to the electrophilic carbon of the α-iminonitrile is more difficult due to steric effects.

To increase the synthetic value of the present protocol, we studied the selective transformation of α-iminonitrile 1a to imidate 2aa in the presence of two equiv. of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 } ,$ using different solvent mixtures with MeOH in ratios of 1/1 and 1/4. As shown in Table 2, in all cases, the quantitative consumption of the initial 1a was observed and the desired 2aa solvent mixtures with MeOH in ratios of 1/1 and 1/4. As shown in Table 2, in was formed in a high yield (95–99%), except in the presence of water, in which a significante quantitative consumption of the initial 1a was observed and the desired 2aa amount of amide was observed (Table 2, Entry 8). These encouraging results support the in a high yield (95–99%), except in the presence of water, in which a significant plausible general application of the present facile protocol in synthetic chemistry.mide was observed (Table 2, Entry 8). These encouraging results support the

Table 2. Reaction evaluation using different co-solvents for the transformation of 1a to 2aa in the presence of MeOH.tion evaluation using

<!-- image-->

<table><tr><td colspan="8">Products (%) [b]</td></tr><tr><td>Entry</td><td>Solvent[a]</td><td>MeOH/Solvent</td><td>2aa</td><td>3a</td><td>4</td><td>5a</td><td>6a</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td>THF</td><td>1/1</td><td>98</td><td>2</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>THF</td><td>1/4</td><td>98</td><td>2</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>DCE</td><td>1/4</td><td>95</td><td>5</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Acetone</td><td>1/4</td><td>97</td><td>3</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>CH3CN</td><td>1/4</td><td>99</td><td>1</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>DMSO</td><td>1/1</td><td>99</td><td>1</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>EtOAc</td><td>1/1</td><td>95</td><td>5</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>8 [c,d]</td><td>H2O</td><td>1/1</td><td>44</td><td>43</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></table>

: 1a (0,1 mmol), MeOH/Solvent (1/1 or 1/4) in total volume of 1 mL, room temperature. [a] Conditions: 1a (0,1 mmol), MeOH/Solvent (1/1 or 1/4) in total volume of 1 mL, room temperature. [b] Relative yields and conversion measured by 1H NMR of the crude reaction mixture based on the addition of specific amount of 1,3-dimethoxybenzene as internal standard. [c] Reaction time 24 h. [d] A total of 13% of starting material pecific amount of1a was observed.

2.2. Application of the Synthetic Transformation of N-(Pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl Cyanides to the ion of the Synthetic TransforN-(Pyridine-2-yl)imidates

midatesTo explore the substrate broadness of the described synthetic protocol, initially, a series lore the substrate broadness of the described synthetic protocol, initially, a of multifunctional N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl cyanides were synthesized according to ltifunctional N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl cyanides were synthesized accord-the above reported reaction of nitrostyrenes with 2-aminopyridine in the presence of $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ ove reported reaction of nitrostyrenes with 2-aminopyridine in the presence and DCE as solvents (Scheme 2). The corresponding α-iminonitriles 1a–1h and 1j–1s were DCE as solvents (Scheme 2). The corresponding α-iminonitriles 1a–1h and isolated in moderate to high yields (50–88%) after the simple filtration of the catalyst and solated in moderate to high yields (50–88%) after the simple filtration of the chromatographic purification using silica gel and Hexane/EtOAc as the solvent mixture chromatographic purification using silica gel and Hexane/EtOAc as the sol-eluent (for details, see the Section 3 and the Supplementary Materials). The α-iminonitriles e eluent (for details, see the Materials and Methods section and the SI). The α-were characterized by 1H NMR and compared with those of reported examples in the s were characterliterature [31].

ure [31].Having in our hands the above optimal conditions, the selective transformation of the synthesized α-iminonitriles to the corresponding imidates (2aa–2hc and 2ja–2sa) was studied at ambient conditions. The observed products were summarized in Scheme 3 and the values in parentheses correspond to the isolated yields after purification by column chromatography on a silica gel using a gradient mixture of EtOAc−hexane (see Supplementary Materials). To our delight, in most cases, the desired imidates (2aa–2hc and 2ja–2sa) were formed in good to high yields (56–98%). In particular, when MeOH was used, clean and quantitative transformations of the α-iminonitriles to the corresponding imidates (2aa–2ha and 2ja–2la) were observed. Similarly high yields were also observed in the case of ethanolic (2ab–2hb and 2jb–2lb) and propanolic (2ac–2hc and 2jc–2lc) solutions (Scheme 2). Only when butanol was used as the reaction solvent was a higher temperature required (50 ◦C) for reaction completion, and the corresponding imidate (2ad) was isolated with a 77% yield within 24 h (Scheme 2). Importantly, in the reaction of 1j (substrate bearing a -COOMe moiety in the para-position of the phenyl ring), an in situ transesterification was observed in the presence of EtOH and PrOH. Thus, the isolated imidates 2jb and 2jc contained in their structures the -COOEt and -COOPr moieties, respectively (Scheme 3). Subsequently, a series of methyl-, chloro-, and bromo-substituted 2-aminopyridino-iminonitriles (1m–1s, Scheme 2) were successfully transformed into the corresponding imidates (2ma–2sa) using methanol and isolated in moderate to high yields, from 33% to 98% (Scheme 3). It is worth noting that the o-Me-substituted pyridine derivative led to the corresponding imidate (2ma) in a low yield (33%), even after a prolonged reaction time (4 days), probably forEVIEW 6 of 13 steric reasons.

<!-- image-->  
Scheme 2. Multifunctional N-pyridinyl substituted iminonitriles synthesized by the $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ -mediated reaction of nitrostyrenes with aminopyridines.

The synthesized imidates were characterized by NMR and HRMS spectroscopies. During HRMS operation, two fragments, [M−31]+ and [M+15]+, were observed with the use of a higher fragmentor voltage (200 V). The $[ \mathbf { M } - 3 1 ] ^ { + }$ s after purification by column  fragment presumably resulted chromatography on a silica gel using a gradient mixture of EtOAc−hexane (see Supple-from the elimination of the methoxy group (−31) to form the corresponding stable cationic mentary Materials). To our delight, in most cases, the desired imidates (2aa–2hc and 2ja–intermediate, and then the addition of a formic acid molecule (+46), which was present 2sa) were formed in good to high yiein the eluent solvent, resulted in the $[ \mathbf { M } \mathbf { + } 1 5 ] ^ { + }$ 8%). In particular, when MeOH was used, fragment. For example, during the HRMS clean and quantitative transformations of the α-iminanalysis of imidate 2ca, except for the main fragment $[ \mathrm { M } + \mathrm { H } ] ^ { + } = 2 4 { \bar { 3 } }$ corresponding im- observed at 50 V, two idates (2aa–2ha and 2ja–2la) wnew fragments appeared at 200 $\mathrm { V } [ \mathrm { M } - 3 1 ] ^ { + } = 2 \bar { 1 } 1$ ilarly and $[ \mathbf { M } + 1 5 ] ^ { + } = 2 5 7 .$ re also observed in , which corresponded the case of ethanolic (2ab–2hb and 2jb–2lb) and propanolic (2ac–2hc and 2jc–2lc) solu-to the intermediates derived by a methoxy moiety elimination and further trapping by the formic acid (Figure S4). These observations also support the structure of the presentderivative led to the corresponding imidate (2ma) in a low yield (33%), even after a prodesired imidates.longed reaction t

<!-- image-->  
Scheme 3. Synthetic protocol of N-(pyridine-2-yl)imidates from N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl cya-Scheme 3. Synthetic protocol of N-(pyridine-2-yl)imidates from N-(pyridin-2-yl)benzimidoyl cyanides.

To extend the substrate broadness, alcohols with a high molecular weight, such as benzyl alcohol (BnOH) and cyclohexyl alcohol (CyOH), were used in the presence of acetone as co-solvents in a ratio of 1/4 (Scheme 4). The corresponding imidates 2ag and 2ah were formed in good yields (90% and 43%). In addition, propargyl alcohol was found to be active under the present conditions and led to the desired imidate 2af in a 55% yield (Scheme 4). Biobased products 1,2-propanediol and 1,3-propanediol were also tested under the present proposed conditions, with 0.1 mmol of 1a and in the presence of different co-solvents (DCE, acetone, and DMSO), as shown in Tables S4 and S5. To our surprise, theco-solvents (DCE, acetone, and DMSO), as shown in Table S4 and Table S5. To our surcorresponding imidates, 2ai and 2aj, were formed as the major products (36% and 83%,prise, the corresponding imidates, 2ai and 2aj, were formed as the major products (36% Scheme 4), accompanied with significant amount of the amide 3a and the esters 5i and 5jand 83%, Scheme 4), accompanied with significant amount of the amide 3a and the esters (Tables S4 and S5). It is worth mentioning that the imidate 2aj was purified by column5i and 5j (Tables S4 and S5). It is worth mentioning that the imidate 2aj was purified by chromatography in a 30% yield; however, the yields of 2af, 2ag, 2ah, and 2ai were calculatedcolumn chromatography in a 30% yield; however, the yields of 2af, 2ag, 2ah, and 2ai were by the 1H NMR of the crude reaction mixture, with the use of 1,3-dimethoxybenzene as thecalculated by the 1H NMR of the crude reaction mixture, with the use of 1,3-dimethoxinternal standard.ybenzene as the in

<!-- image-->  
Scheme 4. Application using alcohols with higher molecular weight and diols, and synthesis of the Scheme 4. Application using alcohols with higher molecular weight and diols, and synthesis of the corresponding imidates.

These results indicate the broad generality of the present protocol toward the synthe-These results indicate the broad generality of the present protocol toward the synthesis of substituted N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates in the presence of alcoholic media. Based on these encouraging results, the synthesis of the imidates 2aa, 2ga, 2ca, and 2la was further tested at the lab scale of one mmol. Thus, the corresponding amount of each iminonitrile, 1a, 1g, 1c, and $^ { 1 1 , }$ was diluted in 2 mL of MeOH in the presence of two equiv. of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ at ambient temperature and stirred for an appropriate time. After reaction completion (ca. $^ { 1 - 4 \mathrm { h } , }$ based on TLC), the reaction mixture was filtered with the use of a short pad of silica gel and washed with ca. 10 mL of EtOAc. The corresponding imidates were isolated after chromatographic purification (see Materials and Methods) in 90%, 93%, 91%, and 85% yields, respectively (Scheme 5).yields, respectively (Scheme 5).

<!-- image-->  
Scheme 5. One-mmol-scale process for the selective transformation of a-iminonitriles into imidates Scheme 5. One-mmol-scale process for the selective transformation of α-iminonitriles into imidates in MeOH.in MeOH.

Furthermore, an attempt was made to synthesize the skeleton of N,N-six- and N,N-Furthermore, an aĴempt was made to synthesize the skeleton of N,N-six- and N,Nfive-membered ring heterocycles, such as 2-substituted tetrahydropyrimidines and dihy-five-membered ring heterocycles, such as 2-substituted tetrahydropyrimidines and dihydroimidazoles. These heterocycles constitute an important core of many natural productsdroimidazoles. These heterocycles constitute an important core of many natural products and exhibit a variety of biological effects, including antimicrobial and anti-inflammatoryand exhibit a variety of biological effects, including antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory effects. They can even be used as therapeutic agents for the treatment of Alzheimer’seffects. They can even be used as therapeutic agents for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disdisease [35–38]. Herein, we succeed in applying the present simple and mild protocol toease [35–38]. Herein, we succeed in applying the present simple and mild protocol to the the synthesis of 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine 7g and 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-synthesis of 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine 7g and 2-(4-chlorophenyl)- 4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole 8g via a reaction between 2ga and 1,3-diaminopropane and4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole 8g via a reaction between 2ga and 1,3-diaminopropane and ethethylenediamine, respectively. The corresponding heterocycles were isolated in moderateylenediamine, respectively. The corresponding heterocycles were isolated in moderate yields, 40% and 55%, as shown in Scheme 6. These are the preliminarily results for the syn-yields, 40% and 55%, as shown in Scheme 6. These are the preliminarily results for the thesis of N,N-heterocycles from imidates; however, further studies evaluating the reactionsynthesis of N,N-heterocycles from imidates; however, further studies evaluating the reconditions are in progress.action conditions are in pr

<!-- image-->  
Scheme 6. Preliminary application of imidate 2ga transformation into N,N-six- and N,N-five-mem-Scheme 6. Preliminary application of imidate 2ga transformation into N,N-six- and N,N-fivemembered ring heterocycles 7g and 8g.

3. Materials and Methods3. Materials and Methods

## 3.1. General and Aparatus3.1. General and Aparatus

All the reagents and solvents were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich, TCI Chemicals, All the reagents and solvents were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich, TCI Chemicals, AK Scientific, Fluorochem, and were used without further purification. Thin-layer chro-AK Scientific, Fluorochem, and were used without further purification. Thin-layer chromatography was performed on Millipore precoated silica gel plates (0.20 mm thick, parti-matography was performed on Millipore precoated silica gel plates (0.20 mm thick, particle cle size of 25 µm). Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were recorded on Bruker Avance size of 25 µm). Nuclear magnetic resonance spectra were recorded on Bruker Avance 500 or 600 spectrometers and on Agilent 500 (1H NMR (500 MHz), 13C{H} NMR (126 500 or 600 spectrometers and on Agilent 500 (1H NMR (500 MHz), 13C{H} NMR (126 MHz)). MHz)). Chemical shifts for 1H NMR were reported as δ values and coupling constants Chemical shifts for 1H NMR were reported as δ values and coupling constants were meawere measured in herĵ (Hz). The following abbreviations were used for spin multiplicity: sured in hertz (Hz). The following abbreviations were used for spin multiplicity: s = singlet, s = singlet, br s = broad singlet, d = doublet, t = triplet, q = quartet, quin = quintet, dd = br s = broad singlet, d = doublet, t = triplet, q = quartet, quin = quintet, dd = double of double of doublets, ddd = double doublet of doublets, and m = multiplet. Chemical shifts doublets, ddd = double doublet of doublets, and m = multiplet. Chemical shifts for 13C{H} NMR were reported in ppm relative to the solvent peak. Mass spectra were measured on a Waters Investigator Supercritical Fluid Chromatograph with a 3100 MS Detector (ESI) using a solvent system of methanol and $\mathrm { C O } _ { 2 }$ on a Viridis silica gel column (4.6 × 250 mm, 5 µm particle size) or Viridis 2-ethyl pyridine column (4.6 × 250 mm, 5 µm particle size). Mass spectra (HRMS) were carried out on an Agilent Q-TOF Mass Spectrometer, G6540B model with a Dual AJS ESI-MS source. All of the compounds (dissolved in LC-MS-grade acetonitrile containing 0.05% formic acid) were introduced into the ESI source of the mass spectrometer with a single injection of 15 µL of the sample and a flow rate of 300 µL/min of 100% methanol as the solvent in the binary pump. The experiments were run using a Dual AJS ESI source, operating in the positive ionization mode. Source operating conditions were as follows: gas temperature of 330 ◦C, gas flow of 8 L/min, sheath gas temperature of 250 ◦C, sheath gas flow of 10 L/min, and fragmentor voltage of 50–200 V. Data-dependent MS/MS analysis was performed in parallel with MS analysis in the centroid mode, using different collision energies (10, 20, 30, 40 V). All accurate mass measurements of the [M+H]+ ions were performed by scanning from 100 to 800 m/z. The Q-TOF was calibrated 1 h prior to the infusion experiments by a calibration mixture. Data were acquired in an external calibration mode.

## 3.2. Synthesis of Aromatic β-Nitrostyrenes

Aromatic β-nitrostyrenes were synthesized according to the literature procedure [39]. In a solution of ammonium acetate (12.5 mmol) in acetic acid (10 mL), aromatic aldehyde (5 mmol) and nitromethane (15.5 mmol) in one portion were added. The mixture was heated at reflux for 24 h. The reaction mixture was cooled at room temperature and then poured into ice water to precipitate the corresponding nitrostyrene. After extraction with organic solvent (EtOAc), the organic layer was evaporated under vacuum, and the residue was purified by column chromatography using silica gel to give final the corresponding products in good yields. In alternative, the precipitated solid was collected in pure form by filtration under vacuum in a Buchner funnel and washed with distilled water.

## 3.3. Synthesis of N-(Pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles from Nitrostyrenes and 2-Aminopyridine

In a sealed tube of 1 mmol of nitrostyrene and 1.2 mmol of 2-aminopyridine, 10 mL of DCE as a solvent and 300 mg $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ (0.3 M HCl) as a catalyst were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 80 ◦C for 24 h. The reaction was monitored by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and the slurry was filtered under pressure through a short pad of silica to withhold the catalyst with the aid of dichloromethane (DCM) and ethyl acetate (EtOAc). The filtrate was evaporated under vacuum and purified by column chromatography on a silica gel using a gradient mixture of EtOAc−hexane to afford the corresponding products in good yields.

The $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ (0.3 M HCl) was prepared by the addition of 1 g of $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 }$ in 10 mL of a 0.3 M HCl aqueous medium and stirred for 2 h at room temperature. After filtration, the solid catalyst was dried in an oven at $1 0 0 ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C }$ for 24 h and was used for the present transformation.

## 3.4. Synthesis of N-(Pyridin-2-yl)imidates from N-(Pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles

In a 4 mL vial, 2 equivalents of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ (0.4 mmol, 130.4 mg) and 1 mL of the corresponding alcohol were added. After stirring for a few minutes, 0.2 mmol of α-iminonitrile was added until the amount of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ was fully dissolved. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The reaction was monitored by thin-layer chromatography (TLC) and after completion, the reaction mixture was filtered under pressure through a short pad of silica and celite to withhold the salt. The vial and the silica layer were washed with ca. 5 mL of dichloromethane (DCM) and ca. 5 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic solvents were evaporated under vacuum and the product was determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy. In most cases, the imidate was formed in pure form; however, when a mixture of compounds was obtained, the desired imidate was purified by column chromatography on a silica gel using a gradient mixture of EtOAc−hexane and obtained in good to high isolated yields.

## 3.5. 1 mmol Scale Synthesis of N-(Pyridin-2-yl)imidates 2aa, 2ca, 2ga, and 2la

In a 15 mL vial, 2 mmol of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ and 2 mL of the methanol were added. After stirring for a few minutes, 1 mmol of α-iminonitrile was added until the amount of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ was fully dissolved. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1–4 h, based on iminonitrile’s conversion, which was monitored by thin-layer chromatography (TLC). After completion, the reaction mixture was filtered under pressure through a short pad of silica and celite to withhold the salt. The vial and the silica layer were washed with ca. 5 mL dichloromethane (DCM) and ca. 5 mL ethyl acetate. The organic solvents were evaporated under vacuum and the product was determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy.

## 3.6. Synthesis of N,N-Heterocyclic Compounds from N-(Pyridin-2-yl)imidates

To a 4 mL vial containing 0.2 mmol of N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidate, 0.5 mL of acetonitrile and 0.4 mmol of diamine were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for a few hours or days, depending on the progress of the reaction, monitored by thin-layer chromatography (TLC). After completion of the reaction, the solution was evaporated and then left under vacuum for 2–3 h. The mixture was then rinsed to remove the 2-aminopyridine resulting from the starting material, with simultaneous crystallization of the product using hexane.

## 4. Conclusions

In conclusion, we showed that a series of multi-functional N-(pyridin-2-yl)iminonitriles were selectively transformed into the desired N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates under a simple and mild synthetic protocol. For the present study, a series of substituted N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates were synthesized with the $\mathrm { A l } _ { 2 } \mathrm { O } _ { 3 } .$ -mediated reaction of the corresponding nitrostyrenes with 2-aminopyridines. The α-iminonitriles were efficiently transformed into the desired N-(pyridin-2-yl)imidates in the presence of ${ \mathrm { C s } } _ { 2 } { \mathrm { C O } } _ { 3 }$ in alcoholic media and under ambient conditions. In addition to the commonly studied methanol, ethanol, propanol, and butanol, 1,2- and 1,3-propanediols were also studied under the present conditions, leading to the corresponding imidates. The present synthetic protocol can easily be applied to at a one mmol scale, resulting an important synthetic access to this interesting scaffold. A preliminary synthetic application to the N,N-heterocycles 2-(4-chlorophenyl)- 4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazole and 2-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,4,5,6-tetrahydropyrimidine was also presented, using the corresponding 1,2- and 1,3-diamines.

Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at https://www. mdpi.com/article/10.3390/molecules28083321/s1: Figures S1–S4; Tables S1–S5; and the NMR data and spectra of compounds.

Author Contributions: A.G.C. conducted the experiments, collected the literature, conducted the NMR study, analyzed the data, and helped with the manuscript correction. I.N.L. came up with the idea, supervised the study, and wrote and corrected the manuscript. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

Funding: This research received no external funding.

Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.

Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.

Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.

Acknowledgments: We would like to thank C. Gabriel and D. A. Sarigiannis of the HERACLES Research Center, KEDEK, Laboratory of Environmental Engineering (EnvE-Lab), Department of Chemical Engineering, AUTH, Greece for allowing us to use the LC-TOF apparatus and helping us perform the HRMS experiments. The authors would like to acknowledge the Center of Interdisciplinary Research and Innovation of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece, for access to the Large Research Infrastructure and Instrumentation of the Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Laboratory AUTH, for performing the NMR experiments.

Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Sample Availability: Not available.

## References

1. Neilson, D.G. The Chemistry of Amidines and Imidates; Patai, S., Ed.; Wiley: New York, NY, USA, 1975; pp. 385–489.

2. Neilson, D.G. Chapter 9: Imidates Including Cyclic Imidates. In Amidines and Imidates; Patai, S., Rappoport, Z., Eds.; Wiley: New York, NY, USA, 1991; Volume 2, pp. 425–483.

3. Joule, J.A.; Mills, K. Heterocyclic Chemistry, 5th ed.; Wiley: New York, NY, USA, 2010.

4. Roger, R.; Neilson, D.G. The Chemistry of Imidates. Chem. Rev. 1961, 61, 179–211. [CrossRef]

5. Thakur, R.; Jaiswal, Y.; Kumar, A. Imidates: An Emerging Synthon for N-Heterocycles. Org. Biomol. Chem. 2019, 17, 9829–9843. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

6. Shaw, M.; Kumar, A. Visible-Light-Mediated β-C(Sp3)-H Amination of Glycosylimidates: En Route to Oxazoline-Fused/Spiro Nonclassical Bicyclic Sugars. Org. Lett. 2019, 21, 3108–3113. [CrossRef]

7. Shi, W.Z.; Li, H.; Mu, G.C.; Lu, J.L.; Tu, Y.H.; Hu, X.G. 1,2-trans-Stereoselective Synthesis of C-Glycosides of 2-Deoxy-2-aminosugars Involving Glycosyl Radicals. Org. Lett. 2021, 23, 2659–2663. [CrossRef]

8. Yang, Y.; Yu, B. Recent Advances in the Chemical Synthesis of C-Glycosides. Chem. Rev. 2017, 117, 12281–12356. [CrossRef]

9. Pinner, A. Die Imidöather and Ihre Derivate; Oppenheim: Berlin, Germany, 1892.

10. Watanabe, K.; Kogoshi, N.; Miki, H.; Torisawa, Y. Improved Pinner Reaction with CPME as a Solvent. Synth. Commun. 2009, 39, 2008–2013. [CrossRef]

11. Ptiˇcek, L.; Hok, L.; Grbˇci´c, P.; Topi´c, F.; Cetina, M.; Rissanen, K.; Paveli´c, S.K.; Vianello, R.; Racané, L. Amidino Substituted 2-Aminophenols: Biologically Important Building Blocks for the Amidino-Functionalization of 2-Substituted Benzoxazoles. Org. Biomol. Chem. 2021, 19, 2784–2793. [CrossRef]

12. Caron, S.; Wei, L.; Douville, J.; Ghosh, A. Preparation and Utility of Trihaloethyl Imidates: Useful Reagents for the Synthesis of Amidines. J. Org. Chem. 2010, 75, 945–947. [CrossRef]

13. Marshall, E.K.; Acree, S.F. On the Reactions of Both the Ions and the Molecules of Acids Bases and Salts. J. Phys. Chem. 1915, 19, 589–608. [CrossRef]

14. Schaefer, F.C.; Peters, G.A. Base-Catalyzed Reaction of Nitriles with Alcohols. A Convenient Route to Imidates and Amidine Salts. J. Org. Chem. 1961, 26, 412–418. [CrossRef]

15. Barcock, R.A.; Chadwick, D.J.; Storr, R.C. Synthesis of Some Novel Imidate Derivatives of Thiophene and Furan: Investigations of Their Metallation Properties and Some Synthetic Applications. Tetrahedron 1994, 50, 4149–4166. [CrossRef]

16. Bartels, G.; Hinze, R.P.; Wullbrandt, D. Beiträge Zur Kenntnis Des Chromophoren Systems Der Corrine, VII. Notiz Über Die Reaktion von Diazoessigsäure-methylester Mit Lactamen; Eine Modellreaktion Zur Cyclisierung von 5,6-Dioxo-monosecocorrinen. Liebigs Ann. Chem. 1980, 1980, 168–170. [CrossRef]

17. Fuchs, J.R.; Funk, R.L. Total Synthesis of (±)-Perophoramidine. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 5068–5069. [CrossRef]

18. Popov, K.; Somfai, P. Synthesis of Imidates: TFA-Mediated Regioselective Amide Alkylation Using Meerwein’s Reagent. J. Org. Chem. 2016, 81, 3470–3472. [CrossRef]

19. Dekorver, K.A.; North, T.D.; Hsung, R.P. An Efficient Synthesis of de Novo Imidates via Aza-Claisen Rearrangements of N-Allyl Ynamides. Synlett 2010, 16, 2397–2402. [CrossRef]

20. Ghorai, S.; Lee, D. Synthesis of Imides, Imidates, Amidines, and Amides by Intercepting the Aryne-Isocyanide Adduct with Weak Nucleophiles. Org. Lett. 2019, 21, 7390–7393. [CrossRef]

21. Schmitt, G.; Ebertz, W. Neue Synthese Für N-Vinylamide. Angew. Chem. 1982, 94, 650–651. [CrossRef]

22. Guan, Z.; Hillrichs, K.; Ünlü, C.; Rissanen, K.; Nieger, M.; Schmidt, A. Synthesis of 2-Anilinobenzimidates, Anthranilamides, and 2,3-Dihydroquinazolin-4(1H)-Ones from N-Heterocyclic Carbenes of Indazole. Tetrahedron 2015, 71, 276–282. [CrossRef]

23. Birch, D.J.; Guildford, A.J.; Tometzki, M.A.; Turner, R.W. Reaction of 3-Nitroso-2-Phenylimidazo[1,2-a]Pyridine with Triethyl Phosphite. A Revised Structure for the Product. J. Org. Chem. 1982, 47, 3547–3548. [CrossRef]

24. Wang, G.; Wei, C.; Hong, X.; Fu, Z.; Huang, W. Sodium Pyruvate as a Peroxide Scavenger in Aerobic Oxidation under Carbene Catalysis. Green Chem. 2020, 22, 6819–6826. [CrossRef]

25. Tzani, M.A.; Fountoulaki, S.; Lykakis, I.N. Polyoxometalate-Driven Ease Conversion of Valuable Furfural to trans-N,N-4,5- Diaminocyclopenten-2-ones. J. Org. Chem. 2022, 87, 2601–2615. [CrossRef]

26. Tzani, M.A.; Gabriel, C.; Lykakis, I.N. Selective Synthesis of Benzimidazoles from o-Phenylenediamine and Aldehydes Promoted by Supported Gold Nanoparticles. Nanomaterials 2020, 10, 2405. [CrossRef]

27. Andreou, D.; Essien, N.B.; Pubill-Ulldemolins, C.; Terzidis, M.A.; Papadopoulos, A.N.; Kostakis, G.E.; Lykakis, I.N. Skeletally Tunable Seven-Membered-Ring Fused Pyrroles. Org. Lett. 2021, 23, 6685–6690. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

28. Tzani, M.A.; Kallitsakis, M.G.; Symeonidis, T.S.; Lykakis, I.N. Alumina-Supported Gold Nanoparticles as a Bifunctional Catalyst for the Synthesis of 2-Amino-3-arylimidazo[1,2-a]pyridines. ACS Omega 2018, 3, 17947–17956. [CrossRef]

29. Andreou, D.; Kallitsakis, M.G.; Loukopoulos, E.; Gabriel, C.; Kostakis, G.E.; Lykakis, I.N. Copper-Promoted Regioselective Synthesis of Polysubstituted Pyrroles from Aldehydes, Amines, and Nitroalkenes via 1,2-Phenyl/Alkyl Migration. J. Org. Chem. 2018, 83, 2104–2113. [CrossRef]

30. Kallitsakis, M.; Loukopoulos, E.; Abdul-Sada, A.; Tizzard, G.J.; Coles, S.J.; Kostakis, G.E.; Lykakis, I.N. A Copper-Benzotriazole-Based Coordination Polymer Catalyzes the Efficient One-Pot Synthesis of (N0-Substituted)-hydrazo-4-aryl-1,4-dihydropyridines from Azines. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2017, 359, 138–145. [CrossRef]

31. Chen, Z.; Liang, P.; Zheng, J.; Zhou, Z.; Wen, X.; Liu, T.; Ye, M. Cyanide-Free Ce(III)-Catalyzed Highly Efficient Synthesis of α-Iminonitriles from 2-Aminopyridines and Nitroalkenes via Intermolecular Dehydration Reaction. ACS Omega 2018, 3, 12520–12529. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

32. Jasi ´nski, R.; Kula, K.; K ˛acka, A.; Mirosław, B. Unexpected course of reaction between (E)-2-aryl-1-cyano-1-nitroethenes and diazafluorene: Why is there no 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition? Mon. Chem. 2017, 148, 909–915. [CrossRef]

33. Woli ´nski, P.; K ˛acka-Zych, A.; Mirosław, B.; Wielgus, E.; Olszewska, A.; Jasi ´nski, R. Green, one-pot synthesis of 1,2-oxazine-type herbicides via non-catalyzed Hetero Diels-Alder reactions comprising (2E)-3-aryl-2-nitroprop-2-enenitriles. J. Clean. Prod. 2022, 356, 131878. [CrossRef]

34. Kallitsakis, M.G.; Tancini, P.D.; Dixit, M.; Mpourmpakis, G.; Lykakis, I.N. Mechanistic Studies on the Michael Addition of Amines and Hydrazines To Nitrostyrenes: Nitroalkane Elimination via a Retro-aza-Henry-Type Process. J. Org. Chem. 2018, 83, 1176–1184. [CrossRef]

35. Siwach, A.; Verma, P.K. Synthesis and therapeutic potential of imidazole containing compounds. BMC Chem. 2021, 15, 12. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

36. Szabo, B. Imidazoline antihypertensive drugs: A critical review on their mechanism of action. Pharmacol. Ther. 2002, 93, 1–35. [CrossRef]

37. Messer, W.S.; Abuh, Y.F.; Liu, Y.; Periyasamy, S.; Ngur, D.O.; Edgar, M.A.; El-Assadi, A.A.; Sbeih, S.; Dunbar, P.G.; Roknich, S.; et al. Synthesis and Biological Characterization of 1,4,5,6-Tetrahydropyrimidine and 2-Amino-3,4,5,6-Tetrahydropyridine Derivatives as Selective M1 Agonists. J. Med. Chem. 1997, 40, 1230–1246. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

38. Kopp, S.R.; Kotze, A.C.; McCarthy, J.S.; Traub, R.J.; Coleman, G.T. Pyrantel in Small Animal Medicine: 30 Years On. Vet. J. 2008, 178, 177–184. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

39. Cai, S.; Zhang, S.; Zhao, Y.; Wang, D.Z. New Approach to Oximes through Reduction of Nitro Compounds Enabled by Visible Light Photoredox Catalysis. Org. Lett. 2013, 15, 2660–2663. [CrossRef] [PubMed]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.