Review began 03/30/2026   
Review ended 04/15/2026   
Published 04/21/2026

© Copyright 2026

Hussain et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License CC-BY 4.0., which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.107513

# Therapeutic Efficacy of Nanodrug Delivery Compared With Current Nonsurgical Treatments for Patients With Cutaneous Melanoma: A Systematic Review

Zarish Hussain , Nujood Buhaimed , Maryam Al Khalifa , Jawaher Aljalahma , Bedoor Alomran 1 2 2 3 4

1. Medicine, King Hamad University Hospital, Royal Medical Services, Busaiteen, BHR 2. Medicine, Bahrain Defence Force Hospital, Royal Medical Services, Riffa, BHR 3. Dermatology, Bahrain Defence Force Hospital, Royal Medical Services, Riffa, BHR 4. Radiology, Bahrain Defence Force Hospital, Royal Medical Services, Riffa, BHR

Corresponding author: Maryam Al Khalifa, maryamfk25@gmail.com

## Abstract

Melanoma is an aggressive skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and drug resistance with limited responses to available therapies. Therefore, further research regarding treatments and technologies, such as nanoparticles for cutaneous melanoma, is essential.

The objective of this systematic review was to summarize published evidence on the safety and efficacy of using nanoparticles with cutaneous melanoma treatments to reduce tumor recurrence and/or survival outcomes for melanoma patients.

A literature search of PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane Library, ClinicalTrials.gov, and Google Scholar was conducted from January 2008 to January 2023. Publications describing randomized and nonrandomized clinical trials of nanoparticle cutaneous melanoma treatment were included. The risk of bias for the included studies was rated according to the Cochrane Handbook, and the strength of the clinical data and subsequent melanoma treatment recommendations were graded according to the Oxford Center for Evidence-Based Medicine Levels of Evidence.

Seven studies were included, which involved 825 adult patients. Most of these patients had stage III/IV cutaneous melanoma. The outcomes measured across the studies were immune response, progression-free survival, tumor response rate, and toxicity. Both the MelQbg10 vaccine and nab-paclitaxel induced positive responses in patients.

Novel nanoparticle-based cutaneous melanoma treatments have been shown to have increased therapeutic efficacy, improved survival, and reduced tumor recurrence compared with current nonsurgical therapies in selected studies. However, this is limited by the small number of studies, heterogeneous interventions, and limited robust comparative data.

Categories: Therapeutics, Pharmacology, Dermatology

Keywords: nano drug delivery system, nanoparticle, stage iii melanoma, stage iv melanoma, vaccine

## Introduction And Background

The number of new melanoma cases in 2020 was approximately 324,635 worldwide and 105,172 in North America [1]. Although it is the least common skin cancer, it is responsible for the majority (>80%) of skin cancer deaths [2]. Melanoma is a malignancy of melanocytes, which are involved in melanogenesis, the synthesis of melanin pigment within melanosomes [3]. Genetic mutations trigger pathogenic growth of atypical melanocytes through multiple signaling pathways, particularly mitogen-activated protein kinase, MITF, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/PTEN/AKT [4,5]. Early melanoma lesions are confined to the epidermis and have a dark, irregular shape. The tumor progresses to invade the dermis vertically, followed by the subcutis, forming nodules and papules [6,7]. Lesions can develop on any part of the skin. Diagnosing melanoma relies on the patient’s history [8]. Examinations are done thoroughly under proper lighting to look for patterns of nevi and discoloration following the Asymmetry, Border irregularity, Color variegation, Diameter >6 mm, and Evolution criteria [9]. Dermoscopy is sensitive and specific for melanoma diagnosis and helps the examiner visualize the lesion without external influences that may affect its appearance [10]. Biopsies, histopathology, and immunohistochemistry tests are also performed to confirm the diagnosis. Current treatment options include chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiotherapy, phototherapy, and targeted therapies. Melanoma generally has a good prognosis if diagnosed early and surgically removed [11]. However, the prognosis becomes poor if cancer metastasizes [12]. Stage I or II melanoma patients have an approximate five-year survival rate of around 99.4%, which declines to stage 68% in stage III disease and 29.8% in stage IV [13]. Thus, cutaneous melanoma is a public health concern with major psychosocial impacts and requires significant technologies and treatment investments, especially for malignant

## melanoma.

Nanodrug delivery uses nanoparticles, which are materials measured in the nanoscale. Nanoparticles can be classified into different classes based on their size, shape, chemical properties, and materials, such as metals, polymers, and dendrimers [14]. They function through passive and/or active targeting of the tumor blood vessels. These vessels differ from others in that they contain fenestrated vasculature, allowing nanoparticles to infiltrate the tumor interstitial space. Tumor neovascularization is characterized by enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect [15]. The process by which EPR is enhanced, and nanoparticles accumulate in the tumor, is called passive targeting. It is based on the tumor’s leaky vasculature and impaired lymphatic drainage, which helps drug accumulation [15]. Active targeting uses ligands, such as monoclonal antibodies or peptides, to bind to specific receptors on target cells. This mechanism enhances the selectivity of targeting tumor cells through the selective delivery of medications to tumor cells or the tumor microenvironment. This increases the efficacy of the specific treatment of tumor cells while keeping healthy tissue intact. Furthermore, nanoparticles enhance the solubility of poorly watersoluble medications, increase bioavailability, and reduce the number and/or severity of adverse effects associated with cancer drugs. Nanoparticles modify drug distribution and clearance, allowing for the administration of lower doses of other drugs used in cancer treatment [16]. Multiple types of nanomaterials have been studied in clinical trials, ranging from drug delivery, immunotherapy, vaccine development, and imaging. In particular, lipid-based, polymer-based, and inorganic nanocarriers have been investigated for melanoma. However, not many clinical trials have evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of nanoparticles in treating patients with cutaneous melanoma. The types of nanoparticles investigated in this review are polymeric nanoparticles, which can bind or carry the anticancer drug. They have several advantages, including controlled drug release, targeted delivery, and drug solubilization [17]. The next type is virus-like nanoparticles (VLPs) or protein structures resembling wild-type viruses. VLPs have no viral genome nor infectious ability, making them safer candidates for vaccines [18].

This study aims to summarize and discuss the therapeutic efficacy of nanoparticles compared with traditional nonsurgical therapies in reducing tumor recurrence and increasing cancer-specific survival among patients with cutaneous melanoma.

## Review

## Methods

## Inclusion Criteria and Identification of Studies

The first step in the process was to complete a protocol outlining the systematic review. The review was conducted according to PRISMA guidelines [19]. The National Library of Medicine, through PubMed, Scopus, and the Cochrane Library, searched for melanoma (Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)), nanodrug delivery (MeSH), and nonsurgical treatments (MeSH), combined using Boolean operators. Our inclusion criteria for the studies were clinical trials, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), and non-RCTs. Other criteria for the articles included the English language and publication between 2008 and 2023 (Table 1). Other resources such as Google Scholar, Clinicaltrials.gov, and the Journal of Nanoparticle Research were searched. References from the identified review articles were searched for any additional articles that can be used in the review.

<table><tr><td>Database</td><td>Search terms Hits</td></tr><tr><td>Pubmed</td><td>(&quot;nano*[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;nanoparticles&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;nanotechnology&quot;[Title/Abstract]OR &quot;nanomedicine&quot; [Ti/Abstract] OR &quot;NanoDru Delivey&quot;[Tite/Abstract] AND &quot;Non-SurgicaTreatents&quot;Tite/Abstract] OR &quot;Skin tT/AstcOR &quot;Te/A]RTAsacR o&quot; [Tite/Abstract] OR &quot;chemotherapy&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;photodynamictherapy&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;radiotherapy&quot; [Title/Abstract]) AND &quot;Skin cancer&quot;[Title/Abstract]) OR &quot;melanoma&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;Malignant melanoma&quot; [Tite/Abstract] OR &quot;Cutaneousmelanoma&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;Superficial spreading melanoma&quot;[Tite/Abstract] OR 825 &quot;Nodularmelanoma&quot;[Tite/Abstract] OR &quot;Lentigomalignamelanoma&quot;Tite/Abstract] OR &quot;Acral lentiginousmelanoma&quot; [Asoly ly &quot;randomized&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;placebo&quot;[Title/Abstract] OR &quot;drug therapy&quot;[MeSH Subheading] OR &quot;randomly&quot; [Te/Abstrac] OR &quot;trial&quot;Tite/Abstract] OR &quot;groups&quot;[Tite/Abstract]) NOT (nils&quot;[MeSH Ters] NOT &quot;hs&quot; [MeSH Terms]) AND (&quot;randomized controlled trial&quot;[Publication Type] AND &quot;english&quot;[Language]) AND</td></tr><tr><td>Cochrane</td><td>((clinicaltrial[Filter]) AND (2008:2023[pdat])) (Nano* OR nanoparticles OR nanotechnology OR nanomedicine OR nano drug delivery):ti,ab,kw AND (Non-surgical treatments OR skin cancer treatments OR injections OR vaccines OR topical treatments OR chemotherapy OR photodynamic therapy OR radiotherapy):ti,ab,kw AND (Skin cancer OR melanoma OR malignant melanoma OR 101 cutaneous melanoma OR superficial spreading melanoma OR nodular melanoma OR lentigo maligna melanoma OR acral lentiginous melanoma):ti,ab,kw</td></tr><tr><td>SCOPUS</td><td>LE-ABS-EY l trials&quot; OR &quot;cilials   topic OR &quot;no al OR &quot;Ran ConolleTrials Topi&quot; OR &quot;oollcial ial&quot; OR &quot;nl CliialTrils&quot; OR &quot;rnllocat&quot; OR &quot;Double-Blind Method&quot; OR &quot;Single-Blind Method&quot; OR &quot;Cross-Over Studies&quot; OR &quot;Placebos&quot; OR &quot;multicnter study&quot; OR &quot;oul &quot; OR &quot;g &quot; OR &quot;&quot; OR l  OR &quot;o&quot; OR &quot;nzan OR &quot;po OR &quot;cil ials&quot; OR &quot;l ial  o OR &quot;nol&quot; OR &quot;Ranz Conrolle Trials s Topic&quot; OR &quot;cnrollecinical trial&quot; OR &quot;Controll Clinial Trials asTopc&quot; OR &quot;randmaocation&quot; OR &quot;randomly allocated&quot; OR &quot;allocated randomly&quot; OR &quot;Double-Blind Method&quot; OR &quot;Single-Blind Method&quot; OR &quot;Cross-Over Studies&quot; OR &quot;Placebos&quot; OR &quot;cross-over trial&quot; OR &quot;single blind&quot; OR &quot;double blind&quot; OR  R l  - KEY (nano* OR nanoparticles OR nanotechnology OR nanomedicine OR &quot;Nano Drug Delivery&quot;) AND TITLE-ABS-KEY ( &quot;Non-Surgical Treatments&quot; OR &quot;Skin Cancer Treatments&quot; OR injections OR vaccines OR &quot;topical treatments&quot; OR 131 chemotherapy OR &quot;photodynamic therapy&quot; OR radiotherapy ) AND TITLE-ABS-KEY (&quot;Skin cancer&quot; OR melanoma OR &quot;Malignant melanoma&quot; OR &quot;Cutaneous melanoma&quot; OR &quot;Superficial spreading melanoma&quot; OR &quot;Nodular melanoma&quot; OR &quot;Lenomaliaelnoa&quot; OR &quot;Acral ntioeanom&quot; AND LIMIT-TODOCTYPE, &quot;r&quot;)) AND LMIT- TO(SUBJAREA, &quot;MEDI&quot;) OR LIMIT-TO (SUBJAREA , BIOC&quot;) OR LIMIT-TO (SUBJAREA, &quot;HAR&quot;) OR LMIT- TO (SUBJAREA , &quot;IMMU&quot;) OR LIMIT-TO (SUBJAREA , &quot;CHEM&quot;) OR LIMIT-TO ( SUBJAREA , &quot;HEAL&quot;) ) AND ( LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2023) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2022 ) OR LIMIT-TO (PUBYEAR , 2021 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2020 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2019 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2018 ) OR LIMIT-TO (PUBYEAR, 2017 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2016 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2015 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2014 ) OR LIMIT-TO (PUBYEAR , 2013) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2012 ) OR LIMIT-TO (PUBYEAR , 2011 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2010 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2009 ) OR LIMIT-TO ( PUBYEAR , 2008 ) ) AND (LIMIT-TO ( LANGuAGE , &quot;English&quot; ) )</td></tr></table>

TABLE 1: Search strategy

The inclusion criteria included different types of cutaneous melanoma patients, including superficial spreading, nodular, lentigo maligna, and acral lentiginous melanoma. The International Classification of Diseases codes C43-C44 were also included to narrow the results to melanoma. Studies that discussed nanoparticles only for diagnosis were excluded: Population: cutaneous melanoma patients (superficial spreading, nodular, lentigo maligna, and acral lentiginous melanoma); Intervention: nanodrug delivery/nanoparticles; Comparison: traditional chemotherapy, radiotherapy, phototherapy, topical medications, injections, and vaccines; Outcome(s): tumor recurrence (primary) and cancer-specific survival (secondary).

## Study Selection

The studies were imported into Covidence software (Veritas Health Innovation, Melbourne, Australia) for screening, and duplicates were removed. Titles and abstracts were screened using the inclusion and exclusion criteria, and then full-text screening was conducted. Articles were excluded if they did not have full-text PDFs. Clinical trials were included if they used nonsurgical treatments (chemotherapy, radiotherapy, phototherapy, injections/vaccines, immunotherapy, or topical medications) combined with nanoparticles that included tumor recurrence as a primary outcome and/or cancer-specific survival as a secondary outcome, in patients with cutaneous melanoma.

## Data Extraction

Data that met the inclusion criteria were extracted by the coauthors and recorded on a standardized electronic data-collection sheet. The following data were extracted from the included articles: study ID, first author, study type, study aim, participant description, withdrawals and exclusions, type of nanoparticle used, type of cutaneous melanoma treatment used, method of administering the intervention, and types of outcome measures.

## Quality Assessment

The quality of clinical data and subsequent recommendations for the treatment of cutaneous melanoma patients were assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias tools by two authors independently, with discrepancies resolved after a joint review of the articles and discussion. The Cochrane RoB 1 risk-of-bias assessment tool was used for randomized studies [20], and the Risk of Bias for Included Non-Randomized Studies-I tool was used for nonrandomized studies [21]. The results of each assessment tool are displayed in Tables 2, 3, respectively. In addition, the Oxford Center for Evidence-Based Medicine: Levels of Evidence was used to assess the strength of the included papers. A PRISMA checklist was done for completeness. The studies included were Speiser et al. [22], Goldinger et al. [23], Kottschade et al. [24,25], Alrwas et al. [26], and Hersh et al. [27,28].

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Parameter</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Speiser et al. [22]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Kottschade et al. [25]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Hersh et al. [28]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Random sequence generation (selection bias)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Allocation concealment (selection bias)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Blinding of participants and personnel (performance bias)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Blinding of outcome assessment (detection bias)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Incomplete outcome data (attrition bias)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Selective reporting (reporting bias)Other bias (evidence selection bias/confirmation bias)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Unclear</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Unclear</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Unclear</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Overall risk of bias</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>High</td></tr></table>

TABLE 2: Risk of Bias for included randomized studies (risk of bias 1)

<table><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Parameter</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Goldinger et al. [23]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Kottschade et al. [24]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Alrwas et al. [26]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Hersh et al. [27]</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Baseline confounding</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Serious</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Serious</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Serious</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Selection of participants</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Classification of interventions</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Deviation from intended interventions</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Missing data</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Measurement of outcomes</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Low</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Moderate</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=6>Selection of reported results            Low                 Moderate             Low             ModerateOverall isk of bias                    Serious              Serious               Serious           Moderate</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Serious</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Serious</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Serious</td></tr></table>

TABLE 3: Risk of bias for included nonrandomized studies

## Results

After applying our search strategy, 1,057 studies were screened and assessed for eligibility. Seven studies (four non-RCTs and three RCTs) with 825 adult patients were included (Figure 1). The main category of patients had stage III or IV melanoma. There were a variety of outcome measures, including T-cell immune response, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), tumor response rate, and toxicity. Multiple chemotherapy and immunotherapy drugs for melanoma, combined with nanoparticles, were studied (Table 4). The studies included show heterogeneity regarding efficacy and treatment outcomes. However, they were brought together under a single review question to highlight recent advances in the field of melanoma treatment.

<!-- image-->  
FIGURE 1: PRISMA flow diagram for study selection

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Study</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Studydesign</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Studysample</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>Studypopulation</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Nanoparticle treatment</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Primaryoutcome</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Evidencelevel</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Key findings</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Cellular immune</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=14 colspan=1>In this study, it was found that VLPs drainefficiently into the lymph nodes, proving theefficiency of QbG10 as a carrier of thevaccine. VLP was combined with Melan $\cdot A _ { 1 6 - }$ 35 A27L analog peptide to form the vaccineMelQbg10. Vaccination resulted in detectableCD8 T cells in most patients in all stages ofmetastatic melanoma17/21 patients completed the studyaccording to protocol, 4/21 discontinued dueto disease progression. Humoral responseswere developed in all patients. All patientsdeveloped Melan-A and Qb-specific IgGantibodies. Groups I and II showed muchhigher titers than groups II and IV. The</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>individual</td><td rowspan=4 colspan=1>22</td><td rowspan=4 colspan=2>Stage II-IVmelanomapatients</td><td rowspan=4 colspan=1>Virus-like nanoparticle.MelQbG10 vaccination(subcutaneous orintradermal</td><td rowspan=4 colspan=1>response andsafety. Anexploratorydesign was usedto test clinical</td><td rowspan=3 colspan=1>2B</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Speiser et</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>substudies(2 single-</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>al. [22]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>group and</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>intradermal</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1RCT)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>efficacy</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>To increase the</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Virus-like nanoparticle.</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>MelQbg10</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>MelQbG10 vaccine WITH IFA</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>vaccine&#x27;s</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(Montanide) s.c. (Group I).</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>immunogenicity</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=3 colspan=1>Goldingeret al. [23]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>Stage II-IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>MelQbG10 vaccine WITH IFA</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>by using</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>melanoma</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(Montanide) s.c. AND topical</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Montanide ISA-</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Non-RCT</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>21</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>patients were</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>imiquimod (Group II).</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>51 (IFA),</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2B</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td rowspan=5 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=5 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>recruited</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>MelQbG10 vaccine given i.d.</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>imiquimod 5%</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>disease progression evaluation frst follow-</td><td rowspan=8 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>WITH topical imiquimod</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>topical cream</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>u could only be completed for 14/21 (66%)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>(Group III). MelQbG10</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>that activates</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients. 9/14 (64%) documented to have</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>vaccine as an intra-lymph</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>antigen-</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>progressive disease, and 5/14 (36%)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>node injection (Group IV)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>presenting cells</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>documented to have stable disease</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=13 colspan=1>Kottschadeet al. [24]</td><td rowspan=13 colspan=1>Non-RCT</td><td rowspan=13 colspan=2>76</td><td rowspan=4 colspan=1>Unresectable</td><td rowspan=4 colspan=6>Polymeric nanoparticle.carboplatin (IV) AND</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>34/73 patients were in PT (cohort 1), 39/73</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients in CN (cohort 2). Three responses</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Objective</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(8.8%) in the PT cohort (90% Cl: 2.5-21.3),</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>median PFS was 4.1 months, and median</td><td rowspan=5 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=5 colspan=1>stage IVmalignantmelanoma</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>carboplatin (IV)</td><td></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>response rate</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>1B</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>OS was 10.9 months. Cohort 2: 10</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=4 colspan=5>paclitaxel albumin-stabilizednanoparticle formulation (ABI-007) (IV)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(RECIST), PFS,</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>responses (25.6%) in CN cohort (90% CI:</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>and OS</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>16.7-42.3), median PFS was 4.5 months,</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>and median OS was 11.1 months. Treatment</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=4 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=4 colspan=6></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>was discontinued in 28/39 (72%) patients</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>due to the progression of the disease</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Regimen TB-42 patients. 32/42 discontinued</td><td rowspan=8 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>Polymeric nanoparticle.</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>treatment due isease progression. 3</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>Regimen TB: temozolomide</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients discontinued treatment due to grade</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>(200 mg/m² orally days 1-5)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>3 adverse events. Median PFS time and</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>CN patients</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>AND bevacizumab (10/kg IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>median OS with TB were 3.8 and 12.3</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>with</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>days 1 and 15 of a 28-day</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>months, respectively. Regimen ABC-51</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Kottschade</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>RCT</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2>93</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>unresectable</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>cycle). Regimen ABC: Nab-</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>PFS rate, and</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>1B</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients. 12/51 patients discontinued</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>et al. [25]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>stage IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>paclitaxel (100 mg/m² IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>oS</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>treatment due to grade 3 adverse events.</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>malignant</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>days 1, 8, and 15) AND</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>28/51 discontinued treatment due to disease</td><td rowspan=6 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>melanoma</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>bevacizumab (10 mg/kg IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>progression. The median PFS and OS times</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=5>days 1 and 15) AND</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>with ABC were 6.7 and 13.9 months,</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>carboplatin (at AUC of 6 IV on</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>respectively. The addition of bevacizumab to</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>day 1, of a 28-day cycle)</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>nab-paclitaxel and carboplatin shows</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>pisinctviyteabil</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=5 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=6>Polymeric nanoparticle.</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Safety and</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Secondary aim: response rate and duration,</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>OS, and incidence of CNS metastasis. The</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>Biochemotherapy: (IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>toxicity of</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>median time to disease progression was 5.3</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Stage IV orunresectable</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>cisplatin (20 mg/m²),</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>biochemotherapy</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>months, and the median OS was 8.73</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>subcutaneous interferon-α (5</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>with</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>months. 5/9 (56%) of patients had a partial</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=5 colspan=1>Alrwas etal. [26]</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Non-RCT</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2>10</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>stage IIImetastatic</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=6>x 106 IU/m²), continuous IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>temozolomide</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>2B</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>response. 0 patients showed a complete</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>and nab-</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>response to treatment. 6/9 patients</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=3 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>melanoma</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>interleukin-2 (9 × 106 IU/m²]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>paclitaxel, and</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>developed melanoma metastasis in the CNS.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>WITH oral temozolomide</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>maximum</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>The results overall were that</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>(250 mg/m²) AND Nab-</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>tolerated dose of</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>biochemotherapy with nab-paclitaxel and</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>paclitaxel</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>nab-paclitaxel</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>temozolomide resulted in significant toxicity</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>in patients with metastatic melanoma</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Cohort 1%-5% of patients have experienced</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Confirmed</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>grade 3 or 4 sensory neuropathy. ORR was</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>malignant</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>2.7%, response plus stable disease rate was</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>melanoma</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>Polymeric Nanoparticle.</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>37.8%, median PFS was 3.5 months, and</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>Cohort 1- Nab-paclitaxel</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>median OS was 12.1 months. Cohort 2: 19%</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>overall were</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>(ABI-007) IV weekly for 3</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>of patients have experienced grade 3 or 4</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Hersh etal. [27]</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>Non-RCT</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2>74</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>enrolled.Cohort 1:</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>weeks at 100 mg/m². Cohort</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>ORR, PFS, OS</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>sensory neuropathy. ORR was 21.6%,</td><td rowspan=9 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=3 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>significantly higher than that of the patients in</td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>previously</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=6>2- Nab-paclitaxel (ABI-007)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>the first cohort. Response plus stable disease</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>received</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>IV weekly for 3 weeks at 150</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>rate was 48.6%, and median PFS was 4.5</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>chemotherapy.</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>mg/m2</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>months. Nab-paclitaxel is well tolerated and</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Cohort 2: CN</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>has shown favorable results compared to the</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>currentgol stndardacbazi,</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>as well as other combination therapies</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=4 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>CN Stage IV</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Progression-free survival (PFS): 4.8 monthswith nab-paclitaxel vs. 2.5 months with</td><td rowspan=7 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=3 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>patients were</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>dacarbazine. OS: 12.6 months nab-paclitaxel</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>recruited and</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>Polymeric nanoparticle. Nab-</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>vs. 10.5 months dacarbazine. ORR: 15%nab-paclitaxel vs. 11% dacarbazine (p =</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>randomized to</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>paclitaxel (150 mg/m² on</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>1 1B</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=3 colspan=1>Hersh etal. [28]</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>RCT</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>529</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>receive either</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=6>days 1, 8, and 15 every 4</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>PFS, OS, ORR,</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=2>study,</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.239). DCR: 39% nab-paclitaxel vs. 27%</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>nab-paclitaxel</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=6>weeks). Dacarbazine (1,000</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>DCR</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=3>RCT</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>dacarbazine (p = 0.004). Neuropathy (nab-</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>paclitaxel, 25% vs. dacarbazine, 0%; p &lt;</td></tr></table>

<table><tr><td></td><td>(264) or dacarbazine (265 patients)</td><td>mg/m² every 3 weeks)</td><td></td><td>0.001) and neutropenia (nab-paclitaxel, 20% vs. dacarbazine, 10%; p = 0.004) were the common grade ≥3 treatment-related adverse events</td></tr></table>

## TABLE 4: Charted data for each study highlighting nanoparticle treatment, primary outcomes, and key findings

RCT: randomized controlled trial; VLP: virus-like nanoparticle; IFA: incomplete Freund’s adjuvant; ISA-51: incomplete seppic adjuvant 51; RECIST: response evaluation criteria in solid tumors; PFS: progression-free survival; OS: overall survival; PT: previously treated; CN: chemotherapy naive; TB: temozolomide/bevacizumab; AUC: area under the curve; CNS: central nervous system; ORR: overall response rate; DCR: disease control rate

## VLP for Melanoma Treatment

Speiser et al. used a VLP combined with the Melan-A16-35 A27L analog peptide to form the vaccine MelQbg10, which induced ex vivo-detectable CD8 T-cell responses in most stage II-IV melanoma patients. They concluded that vaccination with CpG-loaded VLPs can successfully induce human CD8 T-cell responses and potential long-term immunity from the disease, an essential requirement for immunotherapy [22].

To further increase the immunogenicity of the MelQbg10 vaccine, Goldinger et al. investigated the MelQbG10 vaccine with incomplete Freund’s adjuvant (IFA; Montanide), the MelQbG10 vaccine with IFA and topical Imiquimod, the MelQbG10 vaccine with topical 5% Imiquimod cream alone, and administering the vaccine as an intra-lymph node injection. There was a 76% response rate to the MelQbG10 vaccine with a twofold increase in the percentage of Melan-A tetramer-positive cells. T-cell frequencies were significantly increased in Group I and II patients after administration of MelQbg10 with IFA (Montanide) compared with patients receiving vaccines without IFA. The combination of MelQbg10 and Imiquimod with IFA triggers toll-like receptor (TLR)-7 and TLR-9, leading to enhanced promotion of memory and effectorphenotype cells. This is significant since many relapsing melanoma cases show decreased expression of Melan-A or human leukocyte antigen class I, demonstrating an immune escape mechanism. This highlights the importance of immunotherapy as a treatment for relapsing melanoma. Overall, the study demonstrated that MelQbG10 is safe and well-tolerated at a cumulative dose of 6 mg. Although the combination of IFA with MelQbG10 caused more frequent side effects, it also induced the highest Melan-A-specific T-cell frequencies. Future vaccines need to be able to target multiple antigens and be tested on humans to determine which formulations can provide the most clinical benefit for patients [23]. Both studies highlight that VLP-based vaccines are able to generate T-cell responses, providing protection from malignant diseases, meaning they can be used in clinical practice.

## Human Albumin Nanoparticle for Melanoma Treatment

Nab-paclitaxel and carboplatin: Nab-paclitaxel (ABI-007) is a solvent-free, albumin-bound nanoparticle formulation of the chemotherapy drug paclitaxel created to reduce the Cremophor vehicle-associated toxicities of paclitaxel. To examine nab-paclitaxel’s antitumor properties, Kottschade et al. combined nabpaclitaxel with carboplatin. They studied the objective response rate (response evaluation criteria in solid tumors) in patients with unresectable stage IV melanoma who were either chemotherapy-naive (CN) or previously treated (PT). The advantages of using ABI-007 instead of paclitaxel combined with carboplatin are the ability of ABI-007 to deliver a higher dose of paclitaxel and show higher response rates, a shorter time to disease progression, and a lower incidence of neutropenia. ABI-007 can also bind secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine, a protein on the surface of malignant melanocytes, enhancing ABI-007 delivery to the tumor site at higher concentrations. They discovered that weekly administration of ABI-007, combined with carboplatin, seems to be well tolerated with promising therapeutic activity in CN patients, and modest antitumor activity in PT patients. For CN patients who are unable to tolerate paclitaxel therapy, the combination of ABI-007 and carboplatin appears effective, although such formulations should be compared in future RCTs [24].

Nab-paclitaxel, carboplatin, temozolomide, and bevacizumab: In another study, Kottschade et al. investigated combining chemotherapy (nab-paclitaxel with carboplatin or temozolomide) and immunotherapy (bevacizumab) for CN patients with unresectable stage IV malignant melanoma. They found higher efficacy and a median OS of 13.9 months in the bevacizumab-nab-paclitaxel with carboplatin treatment cohort, vs. 12.3 months in the temozolomide and bevacizumab group [25].

Nab-paclitaxel, temozolomide, and biochemotherapy: Alrwas et al. used nab-paclitaxel and temozolomide with biochemotherapy (cisplatin, interferon-α, and interleukin-2) for metastatic melanoma to study its safety, toxicity, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of nab-paclitaxel. They also investigated substituting nab-paclitaxel with less potent substances to look for an increased response rate and duration. They were unsuccessful in finding the MTD of nab-paclitaxel due to dose-limiting toxicities. Although the combination elicited responses outside the central nervous system, they noted that biochemotherapy with nab-paclitaxel and temozolomide caused significant toxicity [26]. However, this study is limited by the lack of MTD for nabpaclitaxel and the small number of patients enrolled, which may affect the accuracy of its efficacy and survival evaluations. Therefore, future clinical trials need to be conducted to determine the MTD of nabpaclitaxel combined with biochemotherapy to recommend an effective treatment regimen for metastatic melanoma patients.

Nab-paclitaxel in CN and treated patients: Hersh et al. studied two cohorts: ABI-007 in inoperable locally recurrent or metastatic melanoma patients who had previously received chemotherapy and in CN patients for the response rate, PFS, and OS. They found that nab-paclitaxel was well tolerated and showed activity in both cohorts. It showed favorable results compared with the current gold standard dacarbazine therapy, previous studies of single-agent paclitaxel therapy, combination chemotherapy, and other therapies for PT melanoma patients. The median OS in the PT vs. CN patients was 12.1 and 9.6 months, respectively. This is significantly longer than the median survival of less than eight months reported for patients treated with dacarbazine or temozolomide. The PFS in chemotherapy-PT vs. CN patients was 3.5 and 4.5 months, respectively, which is longer than the PFS of 1.6 months in patients treated with dacarbazine or temozolomide. Considering metastatic melanoma has a short survival and an unrelenting disease progression, this study shows the effectiveness of using nab-paclitaxel to slow disease progression and extend patient survival time [27].

In a different study by Hersh et al., patients with randomized CN metastatic melanoma were treated with nab-paclitaxel or dacarbazine to assess the PFS, OS, and disease control rate (DCR). They found that nabpaclitaxel significantly improved PFS and DCR compared with dacarbazine, with a manageable safety profile [28]. The higher efficacy of nab-paclitaxel compared with solvent-based (sb) paclitaxel can be attributed to the unique pharmacokinetic profile of albumin-based nab technology and the lack of solvent, which alone causes neuropathy and hypersensitivity reactions. Thus, nab technology can contribute to an enhanced tolerability profile and to higher doses and intensities of nab-paclitaxel compared with sb-paclitaxel [29-35]. Both studies highlight the importance of nab-paclitaxel as a treatment option for BRAF wild-type and mutant melanoma, as well as CN patients with metastatic melanoma.

## Discussion

This review found that the MelQbg10 vaccine elicited positive treatment responses, fewer adverse effects, and increased survival rates. The nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy drug combinations were effective but associated with toxicities. The evidence suggests that nanoparticles, in combination with melanoma drugs, have the potential to be used for treatment. However, due to the limited RCTs conducted, a definitive conclusion cannot be made.

Limitations, Strengths, and Weaknesses

The main strength of this article is the methodology. Details were provided regarding the search strategy, study selection, data extraction, and databases searched. The risk of bias was also assessed and clearly displayed for each study. The included studies enrolled a limited number of patients to test the therapeutic efficacy of nanoparticles for cutaneous melanoma treatment. There were even fewer RCTs. Conducting more RCTs is therefore necessary to determine the safety, toxicity, and efficacy profiles of nanoparticle drug formulations. Furthermore, there was a high risk of performance, detection, and selection biases regarding blinding and randomization across the studies. With the nonrandomized studies, there was a high risk of bias regarding baseline confounding and participant selection. The high risk of bias among the studies poses a significant limitation to our study, as it affects the confidence in the safety and efficacy of these interventions. In addition, this systematic review examined only two main types of nanoparticles used in cutaneous melanoma treatments: polymersomes and VLPs, as these were used in clinical trials. Future research needs to be conducted in a clinical trial setting with different combinations of nanoparticles and cutaneous melanoma drugs to find the best combination.

## Implications

According to the European Society for Medical Oncology Clinical Practice Guidelines, nanoparticles are not currently listed as a standard treatment. The first-line treatment for unresectable stage III and IV melanoma includes anti-PD-1 drugs, anti-PD-1 drugs with anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated Protein 4 drugs (e.g., ipilimumab), a BRAF inhibitor (e.g., vemurafenib) combination, and MEK inhibitors for BRAF-mutated melanoma [36]. Kottschade et al. found that the combination of bevacizumab with nab-paclitaxel and carboplatin was effective in increasing PFS and OS, comparable to that of drugs vemurafenib and ipilimumab for metastatic melanoma. Thus, this treatment combination should be explored in further phase III clinical trials to implement it in clinical practice guidelines for metastatic melanoma. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines recommend nab-paclitaxel alone for the treatment of metastatic or advanced melanoma. To expand on this recommendation, clinical trials of nab-paclitaxel combined with targeted immunotherapies are needed. While the use of nanoparticles in practice is relatively new, it is a field needing further research and development to determine its role in modern melanoma treatment.

Finally, our findings suggest that nanoparticles can be used in parallel with the treatments included in the guidelines to enhance their efficacy [37]. VLPs combined with Melan-A16-35 A27L analog peptide can be administered as vaccines to stimulate an immune response. Nab-paclitaxel can be used in conjunction with chemotherapy drugs such as carboplatin, as well as immunotherapies such as bevacizumab. Nanoparticles are advantageous in the sense that they can overcome certain barriers that traditional melanoma therapies cannot. Systemic chemotherapy causes many side effects due to its lack of targeting and widespread distribution around the body. There is also the issue of tumor resistance to chemotherapy drugs [38]. Nanoparticles can transport the drug directly to the tumor through both passive and active targeting. Targeted therapy and immunotherapy are costly and associated with low patient compliance [39]. Topical treatments have limited permeability of the stratum corneum, limiting the amount of drug reaching the tumor. Nanoparticles have features that can overcome these barriers, including improved skin permeability and drug retention [40], as well as evading the reticuloendothelial system [41].

## Conclusions

Nanoparticles are promising vehicles for developing future melanoma treatments, particularly for metastatic melanoma. This review found that the MelQbg10 vaccine and combinations of nab-paclitaxel elicited positive treatment responses, fewer adverse side effects, and increased PFS and OS rates. However, this review is limited by a high risk of bias, a small number of studies, and heterogeneity in interventions and outcomes. Therefore, further clinical and comparative trials are needed to specify ideal nanoparticle combination therapies for cutaneous melanoma patients.

## Additional Information

## Author Contributions

All authors have reviewed the final version to be published and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work.

Concept and design: Maryam Al Khalifa, Nujood Buhaimed, Zarish Hussain, Bedoor Alomran

Acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data: Maryam Al Khalifa, Nujood Buhaimed, Zarish Hussain, Jawaher Aljalahma

Drafting of the manuscript: Maryam Al Khalifa, Nujood Buhaimed, Zarish Hussain

Critical review of the manuscript for important intellectual content: Maryam Al Khalifa, Nujood Buhaimed, Zarish Hussain, Jawaher Aljalahma, Bedoor Alomran

Supervision: Bedoor Alomran

## Disclosures

Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.

## References

1. Cancer today. Global Cancer Observatory . (2023). Accessed: February 20, 2023: https://gco.iarc.fr/today/online-analysis-pie.

2. National Cancer Institute: melanoma of the skin-cancer stat facts . (2021). Accessed: May 10, 2021: https://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/melan.html.

3. Hida T, Kamiya T, Kawakami A, Ogino J, Sohma H, Uhara H, Jimbow K: Elucidation of melanogenesis cascade for identifying pathophysiology and therapeutic approach of pigmentary disorders and melanoma. Int J Mol Sci. 2020, 21:6129. 10.3390/ijms21176129

4. Vuković P, Lugović-Mihić L, Ćesić D, Novak-Bilić G, Šitum M, Spoljar S: Melanoma development: current knowledge on melanoma pathogenesis. Acta Dermatovenerol Croat. 2019, 27:163.

5. Coricovac D, Dehelean C, Moaca EA, Pinzaru I, Bratu T, Navolan D, Boruga O: Cutaneous melanoma-a long road from experimental models to clinical outcome: a review. Int J Mol Sci. 2018, 19:1566. 10.3390/ijms19061566

6. Yeh I, Bastian BC: Melanoma pathology: new approaches and classification . Br J Dermatol. 2021, 185:282- 93. 10.1111/bjd.20427

7. Reed RJ, Martin P: Variants of melanoma. Semin Cutan Med Surg. 1997, 16:137-58. 10.1016/s1085- 5629(97)80008-9

8. Melanoma: clinical features and diagnosis . (2022). Accessed: February 13, 2023: https://www.uptodate.com/contents/melanoma-clinical-features-and-diagnosis? search=melanoma&source=search_result&selec....

9. Abbasi NR, Shaw HM, Rigel DS, et al.: Early diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma: revisiting the ABCD criteria . JAMA. 2004, 292:2771-6. 10.1001/jama.292.22.2771

10. Overview of dermoscopy. (2023). Accessed: February 13, 2023: https://www.uptodate.com/contents/overview-ofdermoscopy#:\~:text=Dermoscopy%20is%20a%20noninvasive%2

11. Maverakis E, Cornelius LA, Bowen GM, et al.: Metastatic melanoma - a review of current and future treatment options. Acta Derm Venereol. 2015, 95:516-24. 10.2340/00015555-2035

12. Younes R, Abrao FC, Gross J: Pulmonary metastasectomy for malignant melanoma: prognostic factors for long-term survival. Melanoma Res. 2013, 23:307-11. 10.1097/CMR.0b013e3283632cbe

13. Saginala K, Barsouk A, Aluru JS, Rawla P, Barsouk A: Epidemiology of melanoma. Med Sci (Basel). 2021, 9:63. 10.3390/medsci9040063

14. Murthy SK: Nanoparticles in modern medicine: state of the art and future challenges . Int J Nanomedicine. 2007, 2:129-41.

15. Beiu C, Giurcaneanu C, Grumezescu AM, Holban AM, Popa LG, Mihai MM: Nanosystems for improved targeted therapies in melanoma. J Clin Med. 2020, 9:318. 10.3390/jcm9020318

16. Dianzani C, Zara GP, Maina G, et al.: Drug delivery nanoparticles in skin cancers . Biomed Res Int. 2014, 2014:895986. 10.1155/2014/895986

17. Khan NH, Mir M, Qian L, et al.: Skin cancer biology and barriers to treatment: recent applications of polymeric micro/nanostructures. J Adv Res. 2022, 36:223-47. 10.1016/j.jare.2021.06.014

18. Perotti M, Perez L: Virus-like particles and nanoparticles for vaccine development against HCMV . Viruses. 2019, 12:35. 10.3390/v12010035

19. Moher D, Liberati A, Tetzlaff J, Altman DG: Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and metaanalyses: the PRISMA statement. PLoS Med. 2009, 6:e1000097. 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000097

20. Higgins JP, Altman DG, Gøtzsche PC, et al.: The Cochrane Collaboration's tool for assessing risk of bias in randomised trials. BMJ. 2011, 343:d5928. 10.1136/bmj.d5928

21. Sterne JA, Hernán MA, Reeves BC, et al.: ROBINS-I: a tool for assessing risk of bias in non-randomised studies of interventions. BMJ. 2016, 355:i4919. 10.1136/bmj.i4919

22. Speiser DE, Schwarz K, Baumgaertner P, et al.: Memory and effector CD8 T-cell responses after nanoparticle vaccination of melanoma patients. J Immunother. 2010, 33:848-58. 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3181f1d614

23. Goldinger SM, Dummer R, Baumgaertner P, et al.: Nano-particle vaccination combined with TLR-7 and -9 ligands triggers memory and effector CD8⁺ T-cell responses in melanoma patients. Eur J Immunol. 2012, 42:3049-61. 10.1002/eji.201142361

24. Kottschade LA, Suman VJ, Amatruda T 3rd, et al.: A phase II trial of nab-paclitaxel (ABI-007) and carboplatin in patients with unresectable stage IV melanoma : a North Central Cancer Treatment Group Study, N057E(1). Cancer. 2011, 117:1704-10. 10.1002/cncr.25659

25. Kottschade LA, Suman VJ, Perez DG, et al.: A randomized phase 2 study of temozolomide and bevacizumab or nab-paclitaxel, carboplatin, and bevacizumab in patients with unresectable stage IV melanoma : a North Central Cancer Treatment Group study, N0775. Cancer. 2013, 119:586-92. 10.1002/cncr.27760

26. Alrwas A, Papadopoulos NE, Cain S, et al.: Phase I trial of biochemotherapy with cisplatin, temozolomide, and dose escalation of nab-paclitaxel combined with interleukin-2 and interferon-α in patients with metastatic melanoma. Melanoma Res. 2014, 24:342-8. 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000062

27. Hersh EM, O'Day SJ, Ribas A, et al.: A phase 2 clinical trial of nab-paclitaxel in previously treated and chemotherapy-naive patients with metastatic melanoma. Cancer. 2010, 116:155-63. 10.1002/cncr.24720

28. Hersh EM, Del Vecchio M, Brown MP, et al.: A randomized, controlled phase III trial of nab-paclitaxel versus dacarbazine in chemotherapy-naïve patients with metastatic melanoma. Ann Oncol. 2015, 26:2267-74. 10.1093/annonc/mdv324

29. Walker L, Schalch H, King DM, et al.: Phase II trial of weekly paclitaxel in patients with advanced melanoma. Melanoma Res. 2005, 15:453-9. 10.1097/00008390-200510000-00015

30. Legha SS, Ring S, Papadopoulos N, et al.: A phase II trial of Taxol in metastatic melanoma . Cancer. 1990, 65:2478-81. 10.1002/1097-0142(19900601)65:11<2478::AID-CNCR2820651114>3.0.CO;2-S

31. Einzig AI, Hochster H, Wiernik PH, et al.: A phase II study of Taxol in patients with malignant melanoma . Invest New Drugs. 1991, 9:59-64. 10.1007/BF00194546

32. Socinski MA, Bondarenko I, Karaseva NA, et al.: Weekly nab-paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin versus solvent-based paclitaxel plus carboplatin as first-line therapy in patients with advanced non-smallcell lung cancer: final results of a phase III trial. J Clin Oncol. 2012, 30:2055-62. 10.1200/JCO.2011.39.5848

33. Chen N, Li Y, Ye Y, Palmisano M, Chopra R, Zhou S: Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of nabpaclitaxel in patients with solid tumors: disposition kinetics and pharmacology distinct from solvent-based paclitaxel. J Clin Pharmacol. 2014, 54:1097-107. 10.1002/jcph.304

34. Mielke S, Sparreboom A, Mross K: Peripheral neuropathy: a persisting challenge in paclitaxel-based regimes. Eur J Cancer. 2006, 42:24-30. 10.1016/j.ejca.2005.06.030

35. Irizarry LD, Luu TH, McKoy JM, et al.: Cremophor EL-containing paclitaxel-induced anaphylaxis: a call to action. Community Oncol. 2009, 6:132-4.

36. Li SD, Huang L: Nanoparticles evading the reticuloendothelial system: role of the supported bilayer . Biochim Biophys Acta. 2009, 1788:2259-66. 10.1016/j.bbamem.2009.06.022

37. Ascierto PA, McArthur GA, Dre no B, et al.: Cobimetinib combined with vemurafenib in advanced BRAF V600-mutant melanoma (coBRIM): updated efficacy results from a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2016, 17:1248-60. 10.1016/S1470-2045(16)30122-X

38. Singh R, Lillard JW Jr: Nanoparticle-based targeted drug delivery. Exp Mol Pathol. 2009, 86:215-23. 10.1016/j.yexmp.2008.12.004

39. Musyuni P, Bai J, Sheikh A, et al.: Precision medicine: ray of hope in overcoming cancer multidrug resistance. Drug Resist Updat. 2022, 65:100889. 10.1016/j.drup.2022.100889

40. Verma V, Sprave T, Haque W, Simone CB 2nd, Chang JY, Welsh JW, Thomas CR Jr: A systematic review of the cost and cost-effectiveness studies of immune checkpoint inhibitors. J Immunother Cancer. 2018, 6:128. 10.1186/s40425-018-0442-7

41. Shi Y, van der Meel R, Chen X, Lammers T: The EPR effect and beyond: strategies to improve tumor targeting and cancer nanomedicine treatment efficacy. Theranostics. 2020, 10:7921-4. 10.7150/thno.49577