Open Access Full Text Article

O R I G I N A L R E S E A R C H

# A Drug-Drug Interaction of Ainuovirine with Fluconazole in Healthy Adults and Dose Optimization Informed by Pharmacokinetics Modelling

Jianfei Huang1,2, \*, Yan Lei3, \*, Weiping Cai1,2, \*, Yu Meng1,2 , Lei Xiao3 , Yi Zhao3 , Weitong Lin3 , Yaozu He1,2 , Kaipeng Huang3 , Linghua Li1,2

1 Infectious Disease Center, Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People’s Republic of China; 2 Guangzhou Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People’s Republic of China; 3 Phase I Clinical Trial Center, Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People’s Republic of China

\*These authors contributed equally to this work

Correspondence: Kaipeng Huang, Phase I Clinical Trial Center, Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, No. 8 Huaying Road, Baiyun District, Guangzhou, 510440, People’s Republic of China, Email gz8hhkp@126.com; Linghua Li, Infectious Disease Center, Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, No. 8 Huaying Road, Baiyun District, Guangzhou, 510440, People’s Republic of China, Email llheliza@126.com

Purpose: The study aimed to assess the drug-drug interaction (DDI) and safety of ainuovirine (a new-generation non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, primarily metabolized by CYP2C19) coadministered with fluconazole, a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor, in healthy adults.

Methods: This was a multiple-dose, open-label, two-period, parallel, sequential study. In group A, 18 participants received ainuovirine (150 mg, q.d.) from day 1–7 (Period 1), followed by coadministration with fluconazole (200 mg, q.d.) from day 8–14 (Period 2). In group B, 18 participants received fluconazole (200 mg, q.d.) from day 1–7 (Period 1), followed by coadministration with ainuovirine (150 mg, q.d.) from day 8–14 (Period 2). A physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model of ainuovirine predicted its DDI with fluconazole, incorporating population PK analysis.

Results: In group A, when coadministered with fluconazole, geometric means of ainuovirine $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } , \mathrm { A U C _ { 0 - 2 4 , s s } }$ increased up to 233.0% and 349.6%, respectively, versus ainuovirine alone. In group B, there were no apparent effects of ainuovirine on $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } ,$ $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , \mathrm { s s } }$ and $T _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ for fluconazole. No death or grade ≥3 serious adverse events occurred. The predictive performance of the PBPK model for the interaction scenario is excellent, because the ratios of predicted-to-observed $\mathrm { C } _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \infty , \mathrm { s s } }$ are very close to 1.0, which provides high confidence in the model’s simulations for dose optimization.

Conclusion: Coadministration with fluconazole significantly alters the steady-state PK of ainuovirine, but not conversely. The DDI PBPK model supports that dose reduction of ainuovirine is warranted for coadministration with fluconazole.

Keywords: CYP2C19, PBPK modelling, clinical trial, clinical relevance

## Introduction

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a transmissible infection that attacks the human immune system by destroying CD4 T lymphocyte cells. The global number of people living with HIV (PLWH) had reached 40.8 million by the end of 2024. HIV-1 is the most dominant strain in China. The PLWH face an increased risk and persistent burden of opportunistic fungal infections. Fungal infections are major and frequent life-threatening illnesses among the PLWH, especially in developing countries, owing to late diagnosis and limited antiretroviral therapy (ART) access.1 The diagnosis, treatment, and precaution of HIV-related fungal infections remain challenging in China, owing to poor adherence and/or ART resistance. These opportunistic fungal infections include candidiasis, pneumocystosis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis and talaromycosis.1,2 It was estimated that 47% of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) deaths are caused by fungal infections annually.3

Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), as a class of antiretroviral drugs, have been used to treat HIV-1 infection by targeting the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase and inhibiting the enzyme’s activity.4 FDA-approved NNRTIs for treating HIV-1 include nevirapine, delavirdine, efavirenz, etravirine, rilpivirine and doravirine.5 NNRTIs, with their distinctive antiretroviral activity and high specificity, have been used in both first-line and alternative regimens, often in combination with two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) for treatment-naïve adults with HIV-1. However, NNRTIs still face major challenges related to their relatively low genetic barrier to resistance.6 Among these, efavirenz, as a first-generation NNRTI, combined with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and lamivudine (or emtricitabine) is a WHO-recommended first-line regimen for PLWH initiating ART. However, efavirenz has limited oral bioavailability owing to its poor water solubility and extensive first-pass metabolism in the liver.7,8 Efavirenz is associated with central nervous system toxicities, a low genetic barrier to resistance and increases drug-drug interactions (DDI) due to its role as a moderate inducer of CYP3A4.9,10 Ainuovirine is a new-generation NNRTI for treatment-naïve adults with HIV-1, which is predominantly metabolized by CYP2C19 and does not undergo significant metabolism by CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, or CYP2D6.11,12 Ainuovirine is slowly metabolized by CYP2C19 and exhibits CYP2C19 induction potential.11 CYP2C19 gene polymorphism has relatively little effect on the clearance of ainuovirine.11 Ainuovirine has a mild induction effect on CYP3A4.13 Ainuovirine is not a substrate for the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporter, therefore its blood concentration is not affected by P-gp.11 Ainuovirine (75 mg, Tablets) has been approved by the Chinese National Medical Products Administration since June 2021 for use in combination with other ART regimen in HIV-1-infected treatment-experienced adults. Ainuovirine has shown its effectiveness and safety in a previous Phase III clinical trial.12 Ainuovirine (150 mg q.d.) shows comparable efficacy to efavirenz (600 mg q.d.) when combined with lamivudine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Furthermore, ainuovirine is associated with less hepatotoxicity and fewer neuropsychiatric symptoms than efavirenz.12

Fluconazole is an antifungal drug used to treat patients with candidiasis and cryptococcal disease.14,15 Fluconazole has high oral bioavailability and is well absorbed.16 Fluconazole is poorly metabolized, primarily eliminated by the kidneys, and has a plasma elimination half-life of approximately 30 h in healthy subjects.17 As a strong cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19) inhibitor, fluconazole significantly affects the pharmacokinetics (PK) of CYP2C19 substrates.18,19 Fluconazole has been found to potently inhibit CYP2C19 both in vitro18 and in vivo.20 Dose reduction is required for drugs metabolized by CYP2C19, such as nelfinavir,21 omeprazole,20 and diazepam,22 when coadministered with fluconazole. Fluconazole is also a moderate inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4.23 Thus, it is important to understand the potential drug-drug interactions (DDIs) of fluconazole.

DDI between ainuovirine and strong CYP2C19 inhibitors should be considered for PLWH with fungal infections. The aim of the study was to assess the DDI profile and safety of ainuovirine when coadministered with fluconazole in healthy adults. A physiologically-based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) model was developed to predict the DDI between ainuovirine and fluconazole.

## Methods

## Study Design

There was an inpatient study at the Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital (Guangzhou, China) from April 2023 to August 2023. The detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria of the study population are described in the supplementary material. This was an open-label, multiple-dose, parallel, sequential study consisting of a 14-day screening period followed by two treatment periods. According to the ICH guidelines for Drug Interaction studies M12, in section 3.2.1.5, parallel, two-arm studies can be appropriate when a crossover study design is not feasible, such as when one of the drugs has a long half-life. Parallel study designs instead of cross-over designs have been suggested as options for drugs with long half-life in order to avoid carry-over. Fluconazole has a relatively long elimination half-life $( t _ { 1 / 2 } \approx 3 2 \ : \mathrm { h } ) ^ { 2 4 }$ and its plasma half-life is dose independent.25 The use of parallel study design in other DDI studies of fluconazole has also been reported.26–28 Thus, parallel study design is preferred over crossover study design in the DDI study.

<!-- image-->

<!-- image-->  
Figure 1 Study design and dosing, for group A and group B. In group A, participants received ainuovirine (150 mg, q.d.) from day 1–7, followed by coadministration with fluconazole (200 mg, q.d.) from day 8–14. In group B, participants received fluconazole (200 mg, q.d.) from day 1–7, followed by coadministration with ainuovirine (150 mg, q. d.) from day 8–14. \* If plasma concentration in 336 h (D28) was below the limit of quantification (BQL) for the two subjects in the pilot study, then the date of subject out would be updated to D26 for the other subjects enrolled in Group B.

The 150 mg dose of ainuovirine was selected based on its efficacy and safety shown in a previous phase III trial.12 A clinically relevant 200 mg dose of fluconazole was used for the treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis.14 The plan was to include 36 subjects. As shown in Figure 1, in group A, 18 healthy adults received oral ainuovirine (150 mg, q.d.; dosage form: tablet, manufacturer: Jiangsu Aidi Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd, Jiangsu, China) from day 1–7 (Period 1), followed by oral coadministration with fluconazole (200 mg, q.d.; dosage form: capsule; manufacturer, Pfizer Inc., (New York, NY) from day 8–14 (Period 2). In group B, 2 subjects were admitted to the study site on day –1 as a pilot study. The healthy adults received oral fluconazole (200 mg, q.d.) from day 1–7 (Period 1), followed by oral coadministration with ainuovirine (150 mg, q.d.) from day 8–14 (Period 2). After the first 2 subjects completed the study, the remaining 16 subjects were enrolled and followed the same procedure. All doses were taken with 240 mL of water after an overnight fast (≥ 10 h, with no fluid intake within the 1 h before and after dosing), followed by 4 hours of post-dose fasting. Subjects received standard diet during the study period. Safety was evaluated approximately 12 days after the last dose.

## Safety and Tolerability Assessments

Safety was assessed by adverse events (AEs), laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical examinations and 12-lead ECGs (electrocardiogram), all of which were obtained at prespecified times throughout the study. All adverse events were recorded and characterized in terms of their clinical manifestations, severity, onset and duration, action taken on treatment, subject outcome and relationship to treatment as judged by the investigator. All treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) were coded and classified using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA, version 26) preferred terms and TEAE severity was graded using the National Cancer Institute—Common Terminology Criteria for AEs (NCI-CTCAE, version 5.0).

## PK Blood Sampling Schedule and Bioanalysis

At each time point, 3 mL of blood was collected from each subject. In group A, during period 1, blood samples for ainuovirine PK analysis were drawn predose on day 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7, and postdose on day 1 and 7 at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 and 12 h. During period 2, blood samples for both drugs PK analysis were drawn predose on day 8, 9, 12, 13, and 14, and postdose on day 8 at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, and 12 h, and on day 14 at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 144, 168, 192, 216, and 288 h.

In group B, during period 1, blood samples for fluconazole PK analysis were drawn predose on day 1, 2, 5, 6 and 7, and postdose on day 1 and 7 at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 and 12 h. During period 2, blood samples for both drugs PK analysis were drawn predose on day 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14, and postdose on day 8 at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 h, and on day 14 at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 144, 168, 192, 216, 288, 336 h\*. [\*blood samples were collected from pilot study subjects at 336 h (day 28) to confirm whether the elimination phase was complete. If the plasma concentration at 336 h (day 28) was below the limit of quantification (BLQ) in the pilot study, PK samples would not be collected at this time point for other subjects in group B.] For both groups, plasma samples of ainuovirine and fluconazole were analysed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). An Acquity UPLC I-Class (Waters, UK) was coupled with the electro-spray ionization (ESI) source (Xevo TQS, waters, USA). Chromatographic separations were performed on an Acquity UPLC BEH C18 column at 2.1×50 mm, 1.7 μm (Waters, UK). The samples were eluted at a flow rate of 450 μL/min using a gradient mixture of 0.1% (v/v) formic acid aqueous solution (solvent A) and acetonitrile (solvent B). The gradient program was as follows: 0.0–3.0 min, 20% B; 3.0–4.0 min, linear increase from 20% to 95% B; 4.0–5.0 min, linear decrease from 95% to 20% B, with a column temperature of $4 0 ~ ^ { \circ } \mathrm { C }$ . The injection volume was set at 2 μL. The retention times of ainuovirine and fluconazole were 1.79 min and 0.69 min, respectively. Mass spectrometry was performed using the ESI source in positive ion multiple reaction monitoring mode. Ainuovirine-d5 (internal standard [IS]) (98.9%) was obtained from Nanjing Accelas Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Nanjing, China). Fluconazole-d4 (IS) (95.5%) was obtained from Beijing Manhage Bio-Technology Co., Ltd. (Beijing, China). Quantification was carried out at ion transitions m/z 326.1 → 298.1 for ainuovirine and m/z 331.1 → 299.1 for ainuovirine-d5 (IS), m/z 307 → 219.9 for fluconazole, m/z 311.1 → 223 for fluconazole-d4 (IS). Quantification of ainuovirine was done using a calibration curve, which was constructed by diluting a stock solution of ainuovirine (1005.98 μg/mL) in methanol:water (90:10, v/v) and linear calibration curve $( \mathrm { R } ^ { 2 } = 0 . 9 9 5 8 )$ in the range of 4–1000 ng/mL was obtained. The calibration curve of fluconazole was constructed by diluting a stock solution of fluconazole (1999.95 μg/mL) in methanol:water (90:10, v/v) and linear calibration curve $( \mathrm { R } ^ { 2 } = 0 . 9 9 8 3 )$ in the range of 80–20000 ng/mL was obtained. The lower limit of quantitation for ainuovirine and fluconazole was 4 ng/mL and 80 ng/mL, respectively.

## Pharmacokinetic Analyses

PK parameters of ainuovirine were determined from the blood concentration-time profiles both when administered alone (period 1) and with fluconazole (period 2) by noncompartmental analysis using Phoenix® WinNonlin® version 8.3 software (Certara, NJ, USA). PK parameters of fluconazole were obtained by the same method.

The PK analysis set included all subjects with data for PK variable of $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } } , \mathrm { A U C } _ { \mathrm { ~  ~ } }$ , the average concentration $( C _ { \mathrm { a v } } ) _ { \mathrm { : } }$ time to reach maximum plasma concentration $( T _ { \mathrm { m a x } } )$ , plasma oral clearance (CL/F), $T _ { 1 / 2 z }$ , apparent volume of distribution during terminal phase $( \mathrm { V } _ { z } / \mathrm { F } )$ at steady state, and other PK parameters for ainuovirine and fluconazole. These parameters were descriptively analyzed by treatment group.

To assess the DDI effect, a mixed model was fitted to the log-transformed PK parameters $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ and $\mathrm { \ A U C _ { \mathrm { s s } } }$ of ainuovirine and fluconazole. The model included treatment as a fixed effect and variance within subjects as a random effect. The geometric least squares mean ratio and the 90% confidence interval (CI) of the $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ and $\mathrm { \bf A U C _ { \mathrm { s s } } }$ between the two different treatments of each group were determined. It was concluded that ainuovirine had no effect if the 90% CI for the ratios of AUC or $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } } ,$ both with and without fluconazole, were within 80–125%. According to FDA industrial guidelines on Statistical Approaches to Establishing Bioequivalence, bioequivalence (BE) is established when the calculated CI falls within the BE limit of 80–125% for the ratio of geometric means. Therefore, the interval 80–125% is used a reference in this study.

## Statistical Evaluation

Statistical analyses were conducted using SAS (version 9.4; SAS Software Inc., Cary, NC, USA) unless otherwise specified. Safety assessments included all enrolled subjects who received at least one dose of the study drug. PK assessments were based on all enrolled subjects who received at least one dose of the study drug and had at least one valid PK concentration measurement available.

## PBPK Model Development

In this study, population PBPK modelling and simulation was performed using $\mathrm { P K - S I M } ^ { \mathrm { \textregistered } }$ software (version 11.3, Open system Pharmacology). A model for ainuovirine was developed through the integration of physicochemical parameters, in vitro data, and in silico predictors to predict the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion processes. Virtual populations comprising 1000 individuals were generated based on the demographic characteristics of the study populations obtained from each clinical study. For distribution, a preclinical mouse intravenous PBPK model was initially established and validated based on fraction unbound in plasma and blood-to-plasma concentration ratio data. After a single intravenous administration of 1 mg/kg of ainuovirine to a mouse, the measured volume of distribution was 3.4 L/ kg, closely matching the volume of distribution $( \mathrm { i e . , ~ } 3 . 3 7 ~ \mathrm { L / k g } )$ calculated by the Poulin and Theil method. Thus, the steady-state volume of distribution $\mathrm { ( V _ { s s } ) }$ of ainuovirine was predicted using the Poulin and Theil method, consistent with the value observed in the mouse model. Considering that ainuovirine was predominantly eliminated via the liver, hepatic clearance was implemented and estimated during the parameter optimization step. The relative tissue-specific expression of the enzyme predominantly involved in the metabolism of ainuovirine (CYP2C19) was considered. CYP2C19 was the only pathway considered for the metabolism of ainuovirine in this study, owing to the slow metabolism of ainuovirine by CYP2C19 and the lack of significant metabolism by other major CYP enzymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2D6, and $\mathrm { C Y P 3 A 4 . ^ { 1 1 } }$ Based on the clinical trial report of healthy volunteers administered with the 14C-labeled ainuovirine, the urinary recovery of unchanged parent drug accounted for only 0.7% of the total administered dose. As the current model was developed for the parent drug of ainuovirine and did not involve metabolites, the drug in the model was assumed to be eliminated entirely via hepatic clearance. Thus, metabolic enzyme activity was described as first order process and fm (fraction metabolized) was set to 1. The specific clearance (CLspec/Enzyme) of ainuovirine was optimized from the experimentally obtained concentration-time profiles in the clinical study. Clinical data in participants with HIV (ADYY-ACC007-103, unpublish) showed dose- and time-dependent reduction in drug exposure upon multiple dosing, consistent with auto-induction of CYP2C19-mediated metabolism. Thus, CYP2C19 induction was considered for ainuovirine. The $\mathrm { E C } _ { 5 0 }$ and $\mathrm { E } _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ value of ainuovirine were optimized from the plasma concentration-time profiles in the clinical study. The dissolution kinetics of ainuovirine tablet were described by a Weibull function.

A previously reported PBPK model of fluconazole was integrated with the model of ainuovirine to predict their potential DDI. The PBPK model for fluconazole in adults was previously developed using $\mathrm { P K - S I M ^ { \mathrm { \textregistered } } }$ by Watt et al29 and refined by Cristofoletti et $\mathrm { a l } ^ { 3 0 }$ In this study, the Ki (inhibitory constant) value of fluconazole (ie., 3.50 mM) for CYP2C19-dependent inhibition was referenced from the GastroPlus® database and the Ki value was used for the establishment of fluconazole and ainuovirine DDI prediction in PK-SIM.

## PBPK Model Verification

Simulations of the first dose and multiple doses (75 mg and 150 mg) of ainuovirine were performed. Each simulation result was compared against the experimental data from unpublished studies (ADYY-ACC007-103 and ADYY-ACC007 -401), with 90% prediction intervals described. Current visual assessment of ideal model performance is based on whether the observed plasma concentration–time datasets fall within the 90% prediction intervals. Current quantitative assessment of good model prediction performance is based on whether the ratios of predicted to observed AUC and $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ fall within 0.5- to 2.0-fold.

## Results

## Subjects

Overall, 142 healthy adults were screened, of whom 36 were enrolled, with 18 each in groups A and B. All 36 subjects (100%) received all treatments and completed the study, and were included in the safety and PK analysis sets. Group A included 12 subjects from Han ethnicity, and 6 subjects from other ethnicities, including three Zhuang, one Yao, one Miao, and one Yi. Group B included 17 subjects from Han ethnicity and 1 subject from another ethnicities, ie., Miao. There were no substantial differences between the two groups in baseline characteristics, although group B included more healthy Chinese Han subjects than group A (Table 1).

Table 1 Demographics and Baseline Characteristics of Study Subjects
<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Characteristic</td><td colspan="2">Mean ± SD</td><td>P value</td></tr><tr><td>Group A (n=18)</td><td>Group B (n=18)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Age (y)</td><td> $2 7 . 6 \pm 4 . 4$ </td><td> $3 0 . 4 \pm 4 . 9$ </td><td>0.08</td></tr><tr><td>Height (cm)</td><td> $1 6 4 . 8 \pm 6 . 8$ </td><td> $1 6 5 . 6 \pm 6 . 9$ </td><td>0.73</td></tr><tr><td>Body weight (kg)</td><td> $6 0 . 7 \pm 7 . 0$ </td><td> $6 0 . 7 \pm 7 . 1$ </td><td>&gt;0.99</td></tr><tr><td>Body mass index (kg/m²)</td><td> $2 2 . 3 \pm 1 . 8$ </td><td> $2 2 . 1 \pm 1 . 9$ </td><td>0.75</td></tr><tr><td>No. (%) of males</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>&gt;0.99</td></tr><tr><td>No. (%) of females</td><td>3 (16.7)</td><td>3 (16.7)</td><td>&gt;0.99</td></tr><tr><td>No. (%) of Han ethnicity</td><td>12 (66.7)</td><td>17 (94.4)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>No. (%) of Other ethnicities</td><td>6 (33.3)</td><td>| (5.6)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>No. . (%) of married</td><td>3 (16.7)</td><td>2 (11.1)</td><td>0.64</td></tr><tr><td>No. (%) of unmarried</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>16 (88.9)</td><td>0.64</td></tr><tr><td>ALT (IU/L)</td><td> $1 6 . 5 \pm 8 . 0$ </td><td>19.4 ± 9.2</td><td>0.32</td></tr><tr><td>AST (IU/L)</td><td> $1 6 . 7 \pm 3 . 7$ </td><td> $1 8 . 9 \pm 4 . 2$ </td><td>0.10</td></tr><tr><td>CRE (μmol/L)</td><td> $7 3 . 3 \pm 1 2 . 6$ </td><td> $7 5 . 2 \pm 1 1 . 5$ </td><td>0.64</td></tr><tr><td>Uric acid (μmol/L)</td><td> $3 4 9 . 0 \pm 7 7 . 7$ </td><td> $3 6 2 . 3 \pm 6 4 . 1$ </td><td>0.58</td></tr><tr><td>Urea (mmol/L)</td><td> $3 . 9 \pm \ : 1 . 2$ </td><td> $3 . 5 \pm 0 . 8$ </td><td>0.21</td></tr></table>

Abbreviations: SD, standard deviation; ALT, Alanine aminotransferase; AST, Aspartate amino transferase; CRE, Creatinine.

## Effect of Fluconazole on Ainuovirine Pharmacokinetics

The $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 }$ of ainuovirine increased when it was coadministered with fluconazole, compared to when ainuovirine was administered alone (Figure 2a and b). The inter-individual variability (%CV) for ainuovirine $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , \mathrm { s s } }$ was reduced from 39% when given alone to 15% when co-administered with fluconazole. The results also showed that the $\mathrm { V z _ { s s } / F }$ (L) and $\mathrm { C L } _ { \mathrm { s s } } / \mathrm { F }$ (L/h) of ainuovirine were decreased when co-administered with fluconazole (group A in Table 2). Moreover, the $t _ { 1 / 2 }$ of ainuovirine was longer when coadministered with fluconazole (group A in Table 2). The 90% CIs for the geometric mean ratios of $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 }$ for ainuovirine (with vs. without fluconazole) exceeded the prespecified interval of 80–125% (group A in Table 3).

## Effect of Ainuovirine on Fluconazole Pharmacokinetics

Mean concentration-time profiles after multiple doses of fluconazole appeared similar, whether administered with or without ainuovirine (Figure 2c and d). No difference in $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 }$ was observed between the reference (fluconazole) and the test (fluconazole + ainuovirine) groups (group B in Table 2). The 90% CIs for the geometric mean ratios of $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 }$ for fluconazole (with vs. without ainuovirine) were within the prespecified interval of 80–125% (group B in Table 3).

## Safety and Tolerability

In group A, AEs occurred in 83.3% (15/18) of subjects, including fifteen subjects (83.3%) following the administration of ainuovirine and fourteen subjects (77.8%) following the administration of ainuovirine with fluconazole (Table 4). The following AEs were mainly observed: diastolic blood pressure decreased, abnormal ECG T waves, and blood triglycerides increased (Table S1). The incidence of TEAEs was higher when ainuovirine was coadministered with fluconazole compared to when ainuovirine was given alone. All of the AEs were rated as mild in severity (grade 1) by the investigator. There were no ≥ grade 3 TEAEs, no severe adverse events and no deaths during the study. No subjects withdrew due to AEs during the study.

In group B, AEs occurred in 94.4% (17/18) of subjects, including twelve subjects (66.7%) following the administration of fluconazole and sixteen subjects (88.9%) following the administration of fluconazole with ainuovirine (Table 5). The following AEs were mainly observed: diastolic blood pressure increased, systolic blood pressure decreased, heart rate decreased, and blood triglycerides increased (Table S2). The incidence of TEAEs was higher when fluconazole was coadministered with ainuovirine compared to when fluconazole was given alone. The majority of AEs were rated as mild (grade 1) and only three events were rated as moderate in severity (grade 2) by the investigator. There were no ≥ grade 3 TEAEs, no severe adverse events and no deaths during the study. No subjects withdrew due to AEs during the study.

(a)  
<!-- image-->

(b)  
<!-- image-->

(c)  
<!-- image-->

(d)  
<!-- image-->  
Figure 2 Arithmetic mean (SD) plasma concentration-time curves. (a) linear and (b) semi-logarithmic profiles of ainuovirine with or without coadministration of fluconazole; (c) linear and (d) semi-logarithmic profiles of fluconazole with or without coadministration of ainuovirine. Abbreviation: SD, standard deviation.

Notes: Data are presented as Mean ± SD (standard deviation). N = number of subjects that received treatment in the study period. are tudy  
Abbreviations: $\mathsf { A U C } _ { \mathrm { e x } }$ (%), percentage of the area under the concentration-time curve that has been derived after extrapolation; ${ \mathsf { A U C } } _ { 0 - \infty , \mathsf { s s } } ,$ area under the plasma concentration–time curve from time 0 to infinity; $A \cup C _ { 0 - 2 4 , 5 5 } ,$ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to 24 h; $C _ { \mathsf { a v } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ average steady-state plasma concentration; $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \bar { 5 } \bar { 5 } } ,$ maximum steady-state plasma concentration; $C _ { \mathrm { m i n , 5 5 , } }$ minimum steady-state plasma concentration, PK pharmacokinetic; $T _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathrm { s s } } ,$ time to reach maximum concentration at steady-state; ${ \sf C L } _ { \sf s s } / { \sf F } ,$ plasma steady-state oral clearance; DF fluctuation coefficient; $\mathsf { D F } , = \mathsf { 1 0 0 \% } \times \mathsf { ( C _ { m a x , s s } - C _ { m i n , s s } ) } / \mathsf { C _ { a v , s s } } ;$ Rac, accumulation index; RA (AUC) = multiple-dose $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 = \mathtt { t } }$ / single-dose $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 = \mathtt { t } }$ , RA $\begin{array} { r } { { \bf \nabla } . ( \mathsf { C } _ { \mathsf { m a x } } ) = \mathsf { C } _ { \mathsf { m a x } , \mathsf { s s } } / \mathsf { C } _ { \mathsf { m a x } } ; \mathsf { V } \mathsf { z } _ { \mathsf { s s } } / \mathsf { F } , } \end{array}$ , apparent volume of distribution at steady state; $t _ { 1 / 2 , 5 5 , }$ elimination half-life; ${ \lambda } { z } _ { \mathsf { s s } , }$ elimination rate constant of drug.  
Table 2 Plasma PK Parameters for Multiple Doses of Ainuovirine and Fluconazole (PK Analysis Set)
<table><tr><td rowspan="2">PK Parameters</td><td colspan="2">Ainuovirine (Group A) N = 18</td><td colspan="2">Fluconazole (group B)  $N = 1 8$ </td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine Alone Period I on Day 7</td><td>Ainuovirine + Fluconazole Period 2 on Day I4</td><td>Fluconazole ALONE Period I on Day 7</td><td>Fluconazole + Ainuovirine Period 2 on Day I4</td></tr><tr><td> $A U C \sb { \textnormal { e x } } ( \% )$ </td><td> $3 5 . 8 \pm \ : | 1 . 3$ </td><td> $0 . 5 \pm 0 . 4$ </td><td> $5 8 . 7 \pm 6 . 7 $ </td><td> $1 . 0 \pm 0 . 4$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - \infty , s s } \left( \mathsf { h } \cdot \mathsf { m g } / \mathsf { L } \right)$ </td><td> $\lvert 3 . \rvert \lvert \pm 6 . 6$ </td><td> $6 7 . 7 8 \pm 1 6 . 1 0$ </td><td> $5 3 3 . 6 2 \pm \ : 1 8 0 . 0 7$ </td><td> $5 2 4 . 3 3 \pm | 2 8 . | 3$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , s s } \ ( \mathsf { h } \ \mathsf { m g } / \mathsf { L } )$ </td><td> $8 . 0 2 \pm 3 . 1 6$ </td><td> $2 6 . 7 0 \pm 4 . 0 2$ </td><td> $2 | 3 . 8 3 \pm 2 9 . | 1 |$ </td><td> $2 1 7 . 9 5 \pm 3 0 . 8 1$ </td></tr><tr><td> $C _ { \mathsf { a v } , \mathsf { s s } } \left( \mathsf { m } \mathsf { g } / \mathsf { L } \right)$ </td><td> $0 . 3 3 \pm 0 . 1 3$ </td><td> $| . | 1 \pm 0 . | 7$ </td><td> $8 . 9 1 \pm 1 . 2 1$ </td><td> $9 . 0 8 \pm 1 . 2 8$ </td></tr><tr><td> $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } \left( \mathrm { m g / L } \right)$ </td><td> $0 . 7 3 \pm 0 . 2 1$ </td><td> $1 . 6 7 \pm 0 . 3$ </td><td> $1 2 . 6 8 \pm 1 . 4 8$ </td><td> $1 2 . 6 5 \pm \ : 1 . 7 8$ </td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">PK Parameters</td><td colspan="2">Ainuovirine (Group A) N = 18</td><td colspan="2">Fluconazole (group B) N = I8</td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine Alone Period I on Day 7</td><td>Ainuovirine + Fluconazole Period 2 on Day I4</td><td>Fluconazole ALONE Period I on Day 7</td><td>Fluconazole + Ainuovirine Period 2 on Day I4</td></tr><tr><td>Cmin,ss (mg/L)</td><td> $0 . 1 9 \pm 0 . 1 0$ </td><td> $0 . 9 1 \pm 0 . 1 4$ </td><td> $6 . 7 5 \pm \ : 1 . 0 8$ </td><td> $6 . 9 4 \pm \ : | . 3 |$ </td></tr><tr><td>CLs/F (L/h)</td><td> $2 1 . 6 6 \pm 8 . 7 1$ </td><td> $5 . 7 3 \pm 0 . 8 1$ </td><td> $0 . 9 5 \pm 0 . 1 3$ </td><td> $0 . 9 4 \pm 0 . 1 4$ </td></tr><tr><td>DF (%)</td><td> $1 7 3 . 7 \pm 4 5 . 9$ </td><td> $6 7 . 2 \pm 1 4 . 5$ </td><td> $6 7 . 4 \pm \ : 1 4 . 2$ </td><td> $6 3 . 7 \pm 1 5 . 9$ </td></tr><tr><td>Rac(AUC)</td><td> $| . | \pm 0 . 2$ </td><td> $1 . 8 \pm 0 . 3$ </td><td> $2 . 4 \pm 0 . 3 3$ </td><td> $1 . 0 \pm 0 . 0 4$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\mathsf { R a c } ( \mathsf { C } _ { \mathsf { m a x } } )$ </td><td> $1 . 2 \pm 0 . 3$ </td><td> $1 . 6 \pm 0 . 2$ </td><td> $2 . 3 \pm 0 . 4$ </td><td> $| . 0 \pm 0 . |$ </td></tr><tr><td> $T _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } \ ( \mathsf { h } )$ </td><td> $2 . 3 \pm 1 . 1$ </td><td> $2 . 8 \pm 0 . 9$ </td><td> $1 . 4 \pm 0 . 7$ </td><td> $2 . 0 \pm \ : 1 . 5$ </td></tr><tr><td> $\mathsf { V } z _ { s s } / \mathsf { F } \left( \mathsf { L } \right)$ </td><td> $5 1 8 . 5 6 \pm 2 4 6 . 5 7$ </td><td> $2 2 7 . 1 2 \pm 1 0 7 . 7 3$ </td><td> $4 2 . 8 6 \pm 1 0 . 1 9$ </td><td> $3 9 . 6 3 \pm 5 . 1 6$ </td></tr><tr><td> $t _ { 1 / 2 , s s } \ ( \mathsf { h } )$ </td><td> $1 7 . 3 \pm 6 . 2$ </td><td> $2 7 . 3 \pm \ : 1 0 . 7$ </td><td> $3 1 . 7 \pm 9 . 6$ </td><td> $2 9 . 7 \pm 4 . 6$ </td></tr><tr><td>λZzs (1/h)</td><td> $0 . 0 5 \pm 0 . 0 2$ </td><td> $0 . 0 3 \pm 0 . 0 1$ </td><td> $0 . 0 2 \pm 0 . 0 1$ </td><td> $0 . 0 2 \pm 0 . 0 0 4$ </td></tr></table>

Table 3 Summary of Log Transformed Statistical Analysis of Drug-Drug Interactions
<table><tr><td rowspan="2">PK Parameters</td><td colspan="2">Ainuovirine (Group A)</td><td rowspan="2">GM Ratio (%)</td><td rowspan="2">90% CI (%)</td><td colspan="2">Fluconazole (Group B) (GM)</td><td rowspan="2">GM Ratio (%)</td><td rowspan="2">90% CI (%)</td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine Alone Period I N = 18</td><td>Ainuovirine + Fluconazole Period 2 N = I7</td><td>Fluconazole Alone Period I (Group B) N = I8</td><td>Fluconazole + Ainuovirine Period 2 (Group B) N = I8</td></tr><tr><td>Cmax;s (mg/L)</td><td>0.70</td><td>1.63</td><td>233.0</td><td>203.3-267.1</td><td>12.59</td><td>12.53</td><td>99.5</td><td>96.4-102.7</td></tr><tr><td>AUCo-24ss(hmg/L)</td><td>7.46</td><td>26.08</td><td>349.6</td><td>293.0-417.2</td><td>211.93</td><td>215.87</td><td>101.9</td><td>99.5-104.3</td></tr><tr><td>Tmax,ss(h)</td><td>2.0 (0.5, 4.0)</td><td>3.0 (1.0,4.0)</td><td>NA</td><td>NA</td><td>1.0 (0.5, 3.0)</td><td>1.5 (0.5, .0)</td><td>NA</td><td>NA</td></tr></table>

Notes: Data are GM (geometric mean) except for $\tau _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ where median (minimum, maximum) values are presented. Abbreviations: CI, confidence interval; PK, pharmacokinetic; $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ maximum steady-state plasma concentration; $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , 5 5 , }$ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to 24 h; $T _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ , time to reach maximum concentration at steady-state.

Table 4 Summary of TEAE in Group A (Safety Analysis Set)
<table><tr><td>SOC/PT</td><td>Ainuovirine 150 mg Period I N= 18, n (%)</td><td>Ainuovirine 150 mg Plus Fluconazole 200 mg Period 2 N= 18, n (%)</td><td>Total N= 18, n (%)</td></tr><tr><td>Subjects with TEAE</td><td>11 (61.1)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td></tr><tr><td>Subjects with ainuovirine-related TEAE</td><td>11 (61.1)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td></tr><tr><td>Subjects with fluconazole-related TEAE</td><td>-</td><td>14 (77.8)</td><td>14 (77.8)</td></tr><tr><td>TEAE of CTCAE grade 3 or more</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine-related adverse events of CTCAE grade 3 or more</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Fluconazole-related adverse events of CTCAE grade 3 or more</td><td>-</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>SAE</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine-related SAE</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Fluconazole-related SAE</td><td>-</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Concomitant medications, non-pharmacological treatment related TEAE</td><td>0</td><td>2 (11.1)</td><td>2 (11.1)</td></tr></table>

Notes: n number of subjects with an adverse event, $\%$ proportion of subjects having an adverse event.  
Abbreviations: TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse events; SOC, system organ class; PT, preferred term; CTCAE, Common Terminology Criteria for AEs; SAE, serious adverse event.

Table 5 Summary of TEAE in Group B (Safety Analysis Set)
<table><tr><td>SOC/PT</td><td>Fluconazole 200 mg Period I N= 18, n (%)</td><td>Fluconazole 200 mg Plus Ainuovirine 150 mg Period 2 N= 18, n (%)</td><td>Total N= 18, n (%)</td></tr><tr><td>Subjects with TEAE</td><td>10 (55.6)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>17 (94.4)</td></tr><tr><td>Subjects with ainuovirine-related TEAE</td><td>-</td><td>12 (66.7)</td><td>12 (66.7)</td></tr><tr><td>Subjects with fluconazole-related TEAE</td><td>9 (50.0)</td><td>15 (83.3)</td><td>16 (88.9)</td></tr><tr><td>TEAE of CTCAE grade 3 or more</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine-related adverse events of CTCAE grade 3 or more</td><td>-</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Fluconazole-related adverse events of CTCAE grade 3 or more</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>SAE</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Ainuovirine-related SAE</td><td></td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Fluconazole-related SAE</td><td>0</td><td>0</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Concomitant medications, non-pharmacological treatment related TEAE</td><td>0</td><td>2 (11.1)</td><td>2 (11.1)</td></tr></table>

Notes: n number of subjects with an adverse event, % proportion of subjects having an adverse event.  
Abbreviations: TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse events; SOC, system organ class; PT, preferred term; CTCAE, Common Terminology Criteria for AEs; SAE, serious adverse event.

## PBPK Model Development and Evaluation

The input parameters for ainuovirine PBPK model are summarized in Tables S3 and S4. The final PBPK model of ainuovirine has been developed to predict concentration–time profiles following oral administration of 75 mg and 150 mg of ainuovirine in the supplementary material (Figure S1a–f). Predictions of plasma concentration–time trajectories for different doses were in close agreement with the observed data. The observed plasma concentration–time datasets fell almost within the 90% prediction intervals (5th and 95th percentiles) for ainuovirine concentrations predicted by the model. The ratios of predicted and observed value of $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and AUC were all within 0.5- to 2-fold (Table S5).

These simulations demonstrated that the PBPK model’s ability to characterize dose-dependent PK changes of ainuovirine and describe its plasma exposure in clinical studies for both single and multiple doses. Subsequently, a previously reported PBPK model of fluconazole was integrated with the model of ainuovirine to assess their potential DDI (Figure S1g). The input parameters for fluconazole PBPK model are summarized in Table S6. The observed individual plasma concentration–time datasets almost fell entirely within the 90% prediction intervals (5th and 95th percentiles) for ainuovirine concentrations predicted by the model (Figure S1g). The presented PBPK model can capture the peak, ie., better describe $T _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ of ainuovirine PK. The ratio of the predicted value (1.66 mg/L) to the observed value (1.67 mg/L) for $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ in group A (Period 2) was 1.00. Moreover, the ratio of the predicted value (29.69 h·mg/L) to the observed value (26.7 h·mg/L) for $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \infty , \mathrm { s s } }$ in group A (Period 2) was 1.11. The ratios of predicted and observed value of $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \infty , \mathrm { s s } }$ were all within 0.5- to 2-fold. These simulations indicated that the model could capture ainuovirine’s PK characteristics involving plasma exposure and its variability, as well as DDI induced by fluconazole’s inhibition of CYP2C19.

## The Ainuovirine and Fluconazole DDI

Dose reduction of ainuovirine when it was co-administered with fluconazole was considered. Two clinical practice scenarios were simulated using the final PBPK model. Scenario 1 focused on a PLWH with fungal infection who was on long-term ainuovirine therapy and needed to initiate fluconazole. Scenario 2 focused on a treatment-naïve PLWH with a history of fungal infection who received fluconazole prior to initiating ainuovirine.

At steady state of fluconazole (200 mg q.d.), the dose of ainuovirine should be reduced to decrease its exposure. The final PBPK model of ainuovirine was applied to predict DDI with fluconazole following the administration of lower multiple doses of 20 mg q.d. of ainuovirine. In scenario 1, subjects received ainuovirine 150 mg q.d. for 7 days, and then received fluconazole (200 mg q.d.) concomitantly with ainuovirine (20 mg q.d.) from day 8 to day 22. In DDI scenario 1, the predicted $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathrm { t a u } , \mathrm { s s } }$ (7.74 h·mg/L) and $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ (0.38 mg/L) of ainuovirine were significantly reduced when the adjusted dose of 20 mg was applied (Figure 3 and Table 6), compared to those observed with the 150 mg dose in the current study. Moreover, the predicted $\mathrm { C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } } }$ (0.28 mg/L) of ainuovirine was higher than that observed (0.19 mg/L) in the current study, indicating that the therapeutic drug level was maintained. In the previous Phase 1 study of ainuovirine conducted in China (ADYY-ACC007-103, unpublish), when treatment-naïve HIV-1-positive adults were treated with a 150 mg dose of ainuovirine on day 10, the $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathrm { t a u } , \mathrm { s s } }$ of ainuovirine were $0 . 5 3 \pm 0$ .14 mg/L and $6 . 2 9 \pm$ 2.42 h·mg/L, respectively (Table 6).

<!-- image-->  
Figure 3 Predicted concentration-time profiles following multiple doses of ainuovirine in the absence/presence of coadministered fluconazole were simulated for virtual DDI scenario 1 (i.e., ainuovirine po 150 mg q.d. Day 1–7; ainuovirine po 20 mg q.d. + fluconazole 200 mg q.d. Day 8–22). Red solid line and red shaded area represent the arithmetic mean and the 90% prediction interval (5th and 95th percentiles) of the model based simulated ainuovirine concentrations (n = 1000), respectively.

In scenario 2, subjects received fluconazole 200 mg q.d. for 7 days and then received fluconazole (200 mg q.d.) concomitantly with ainuovirine (20 mg q.d.) from day 8 to day 22 (Figure 4). The simulated plasma concentrations of ainuovirine over time reached steady state on day 21 with the $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ of 0.36 mg/L and the $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathrm { t a u } , \mathrm { s s } }$ of 7.28 h·mg/L (Figure 4 and Table 7). Moreover, the predicted ainuovirine $\mathrm { C _ { t r o u g h } } \left( 0 . 2 6 \mathrm { m g / L } \right)$ was higher than that observed (0.19 mg/L) in the current study, indicating that the therapeutic drug level was maintained.

Table 6 Comparison of Mean Predicted (Scenario 1) Vs. Observed $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathsf { S } s } , \mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathsf { T a u } , \mathsf { S } s }$ and $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ of Ainuovirine in the Absence and Presence of Coadministration of Fluconazole
<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Ainuovirine</td><td rowspan="2">Number of Subjects</td><td colspan="3"> $\pmb { C _ { m a x , s s } }$ </td><td colspan="3"> $\pmb { \Delta } \mathbf { u c } _ { 0 \cdot \pmb { \mathrm { t a u } } , \mathbf { s s } }$ </td><td colspan="3"> $c _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ </td></tr><tr><td>Pred (mg/L)</td><td>Obs (mg/L)</td><td> $\pmb { \mathsf { R } } _ { \pmb { r e d / o b s } }$ </td><td>Pred (h mg/L)</td><td>Obs  $( \mathbf { h } \ m \mathbf { g } / \ L )$ </td><td> $\pmb { \mathsf { R } } _ { \mathbf { p } r e \mathbf { d } / \mathbf { o b s } }$ </td><td>Pred (mg/L)</td><td>Obs (mg/L)</td><td> $\pmb { \mathsf { R } } _ { \mathsf { p r e d / o b s } }$ </td></tr><tr><td>Multiple ral doses I50 mg q. om d I-7</td><td>I8</td><td>0.38</td><td>0.73</td><td>0.52</td><td>7.74</td><td>8.02</td><td>0.97</td><td>0.28</td><td>0.19</td><td>1.47</td></tr><tr><td>Multiple oral doses I50 mg q.d. from day I-10 ADYY-ACC007-103,unpublish</td><td>I0</td><td>0.38</td><td>0.53</td><td>0.73</td><td>7.74</td><td>6.29</td><td>1.23</td><td>0.28</td><td>0.15</td><td>1.82</td></tr></table>

Abbreviations: q.d, once daily; $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ maximum steady-state plasma concentration; $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathsf { c a u } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to tau (dosing interval) at steady state; $\mathsf { C } _ { \mathtt { t r o u g h } , }$ plasma trough concentration; Pred, prediction; Obs, observation; $\mathsf { R } _ { \mathsf { p r e d / o b s } , }$ the ratio of the prediction value and the observation value.

<!-- image-->  
Figure 4 Ainuovirine concentration-time profiles were simulated for virtual DDI scenario 2 (i.e., fluconazole 200 mg Day 1–7; fluconazole 200 mg q.d. + ainuovirine po 20 mg q.d. Day 8–22). Red solid line and red shaded area represent the arithmetic mean and the 90% prediction interval (5th and 95th percentiles) of the model based simulated ainuovirine concentrations (n = 1000), respectively.

The predicted values of ainuovirine (20 mg q.d). $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathrm { t a u } , \mathrm { s s } }$ and $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ when coadministered with 200 mg fluconazole in both scenarios were similar (Tables 6 and 7). The ratios of predicted to observed $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s , } } \mathrm { A U C _ { 0 - t a u , s s } }$ and $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ in group A and in the previous phase 1 study of ainuovirine (ADYY-ACC007-103, unpublish) were all within the 0.5- to 2.0-fold limits (Tables 6 and 7).

Table 7 Comparison of Mean Predicted (Scenario 2) vs. Observed $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathsf { S } s } , \mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathsf { T a u } , \mathsf { S } s }$ and $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ of Ainuovirine in the Absence and Presence of Coadministration of Fluconazole
<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Ainuovirine</td><td rowspan="2">Number of Subjects</td><td colspan="3"> $\pmb { C _ { m a x , s s } }$ </td><td colspan="3"> $\pmb { \Delta } \mathbf { u c } _ { 0 - \pmb { \mathrm { t a u } } , \mathbf { s s } }$ </td><td colspan="3"> $c _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ </td></tr><tr><td>Pred (mg/L)</td><td>Obs (mg/L)</td><td> $\pmb { \mathsf { R } } _ { \mathsf { p r e d / o b s } }$ </td><td>Pred (h mg/L)</td><td>Obs (h mg/L)</td><td> $\pmb { \mathsf { R } } _ { \mathsf { p r e d / o b s } }$ </td><td>Pred (mg/L)</td><td>Obs (mg/L)</td><td>Rpred/obs</td></tr><tr><td>Multiple oral doses I50 mg q.d. from day I-7</td><td>I8</td><td>0.36</td><td>0.73</td><td>0.50</td><td>7.28</td><td>8.02</td><td>0.91</td><td>0.26</td><td>0.19</td><td>1.36</td></tr><tr><td>Multiple oral doses I50 mg q.d. from day I-10 (ADYY-ACC007-103, unpublish)</td><td>I0</td><td>0.36</td><td>0.53</td><td>0.69</td><td>7.28</td><td>6.29</td><td>1.16</td><td>0.26</td><td>0.15</td><td>1.69</td></tr></table>

Abbreviations: q.d, once daily; $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ maximum steady-state plasma concentration; $\mathsf { A U C } _ { 0 - \mathsf { c a u } , \mathsf { s s } , }$ area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 to tau (dosing interval) at steady state; $\mathsf { C } _ { \mathtt { t r o u g h } , }$ plasma trough concentration, Pred prediction, Obs observation; $\mathsf { R } _ { \mathsf { p r e d / o b s } , }$ , the ratio of the prediction value and the observation value.

## Discussion

Ainuovirine is primarily metabolized by CYP2C19.31 It is well-tolerated over a wide concentration range (dose range: 75–600 mg) in healthy subjects.13 Fluconazole is a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.18 In the present clinical study, the geometric mean $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , \mathrm { s s } }$ of ainuovirine (150 mg q.d.) was increased 3.5-fold in the presence of fluconazole (200 mg q.d.). The incidence of TEAEs was higher when ainuovirine was coadministered with fluconazole compared to when ainuovirine was given alone (Tables 4 and S1). These findings demonstrated a significant PK interaction with ainuovirine when fluconazole was administered to healthy adults and this increase in ainuovirine exposure was deemed to have safety consequences. Therefore, dose reduction of ainuovirine is warranted when coadministered with fluconazole.

After coadministration with fluconazole, the value of $\mathrm { C L } _ { \mathrm { s s } } / \mathrm { F }$ for ainuovirine decreased from $2 1 . 6 6 \pm 8 . 7 1 \mathrm { \ t o \ } 5 . 7 3 \pm$ 0.81 L/h, and the value of $\mathrm { V z _ { s s } / F }$ for ainuovirine decreased from $5 1 8 . 5 6 \pm 2 4 6 . 5 7$ to 227.12 ± 10table.73 L. The approximately 74% reduction in $\mathrm { C L } _ { \mathrm { s s } } / \mathrm { F }$ demonstrated decreased systemic clearance and slower elimination during fluconazole co-administration. The decrease in $\mathrm { V z _ { s s } / F }$ indicated an increase in the oral bioavailability (F) caused by decreased pre-systemic metabolism. The value of $t _ { 1 / 2 ,  { \mathrm { s s } } }$ for ainuovirine increased from $1 7 . 3 \pm 6 . 2$ to $2 7 . 3 \pm 1 0 . 7 \mathrm { ~ h } ,$ however, the extent of this prolongation (\~1.6-fold) is less than the increase in $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , \mathrm { s s } } \ : ( - 3 . 3 \mathrm { - f o l d } )$ . This suggests that the interaction is not solely due to inhibition of elimination but also involves significant inhibition of first-pass metabolism (both hepatic and intestinal), which is consistent with the observed decrease in CLss/F and $\mathrm { V z _ { s s } / F . }$ . The increase in ainuovirine exposure when coadministered with fluconazole is predominantly due to the strong inhibition of CYP2C19, leading to reduced metabolism and clearance. These results demonstrated that fluconazole has a significant effect on the steady-state PK of ainuovirine. Clinically significant drug interactions have been reported when fluconazole is coadministered with other drugs that are substrates for CYP2C19, such as nelfinavir21 and omeprazole.20 Coadministration with fluconazole (100 mg q.d.) significantly increased omeprazole $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ by 240% and AUC by 629%, with a threefold prolongation of $t _ { 1 / 2 } . ^ { 2 0 }$ However, the detailed information regarding the CYP2C19 genotypes of the subjects was not included in their studies.

It has been reported that ainuovirine is slowly metabolized by CYP2C19; genetic polymorphisms in this enzyme have relatively little effect on its clearance kinetics.11 However, in the present clinical study, the interindividual variability (coefficient of variation, %CV) for $C _ { \mathrm { m i n , s s } } , C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } ,$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , \mathrm { s s } }$ was 52%, 29%, and 39% for ainuovirine alone, and 15%, 18%, and 15% for the combination of ainuovirine plus fluconazole (group A in Table 2), indicated reduced pharmacokinetic variability during the combination therapy. The interindividual variability in ainuovirine PK parameters was higher when administered alone than during co-administration with fluconazole. Fluconazole as a potent CYP2C19 inhibitor may cause phenoconversion.32,33 When 200 mg of fluconazole was coadministered, the AUC of flurbiprofen in predicted CYP2C9 normal metabolizers (n = 11) increased to a level comparable to that observed in CYP2C9 intermediate metabolizers (n = 8). Moreover, a 400 mg dose of fluconazole further elevated the AUC, bringing it closer to the levels seen in CYP2C9 poor metabolizers $( \mathtt { n } = 2 ) . ^ { 3 4 }$ The higher interindividual variability in ainuovirine PK parameters when administered alone vs. with fluconazole coadministration may be primarily attributed to the phenoconversion induced by fluconazole coadministration. By inhibiting CYP2C19 activity, fluconazole (200 mg q.d.) masks genetic differences, thereby reducing variability in ainuovirine exposure regardless of CYP2C19 genotype. As coadministration with fluconazole did not increase variability, the effect of CYP2C19 polymorphisms on the pharmacokinetics of ainuovirine in the DDI study with fluconazole could be small. In addition, in Group A of the present study, PK analysis was also conducted in 12 subjects from Han ethnicity and 6 subjects from other ethnicities. No significant differences were observed between Han ethnicity (n=12) and other ethnicities (n=6) in $C _ { \mathrm { m i n , s s } } , C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } ,$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 , \mathrm { s s } }$ whether for ainuovirine alone on Day 7 or for the combination of ainuovirine and fluconazole on Day 14 (data not shown). Thus, the effect of ethnic groups on the PK of ainuovirine in the DDI study with fluconazole was small in the present study. However, the sample size of other ethnic groups in this trial was very limited; thus, the results may not be fully representative of the general ethnic population.

This study also evaluated the influence of ainuovirine on the PK of fluconazole. Results demonstrated that the effect of ainuovirine on the pharmacokinetics of fluconazole was minimal. It could be due to the fact that fluconazole is predominantly excreted renally, with only 11% of the drug being metabolized by the liver.35 In addition, the combination of ainuovirine and fluconazole was generally well-tolerated for 14 days without any SAEs in this study.

Given the increased risk of fungal infections, PLWH usually require concomitant antifungal therapy or prophylaxis. Current therapies for candidiasis and cryptococcal diseases mostly use fluconazole.14,15 Clinically significant drug interactions have also been reported when fluconazole is coadministered with other NNRTIs. For example, the coadministration of fluconazole (200 mg ${ \bf q . d . } )$ significantly increased the $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\mathrm { \ A U C } _ { 1 2 \mathrm { h } }$ of etravirine 1.75-fold and 1.86-fold, respectively,36 and increased the $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ of nevirapine $1 . 5 1 \mathrm { - f o l d } . ^ { 3 7 }$ The coadministration of fluconazole increased the AUC of efavirenz 1.16-fold.38 Among them, the increase in etravirine exposure in the presence of fluconazole did not have a clinically meaningful effect.36 However, the increases in $C _ { \mathrm { m a x } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - 2 4 }$ of ainuovirine in this study are higher than those observed for other NNRTIs in similar Phase I studies. Dose reduction of ainuovirine is necessary when coadministered with the antifungal drug fluconazole.

A PBPK model of ainuovirine integrating the model of fluconazole was developed and population PK analysis was performed. The model was used to predict plasma concentrations of ainuovirine and DDI between ainuovirine and fluconazole. A criterion that predicted/observed AUC and $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ ratios are within a twofold (0.5–2.0) range is widely accepted in the field of PBPK modelling.39,40 This criterion was used in the current study. More importantly, for antiretroviral drugs, $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ is critical for the maintenance of HIV-1 suppression; thus, the predicted/observed Ctrough ratio should be considered in the present study. In the present study, the PK profiles fit with the model (Figure S1) and the PBPK model estimates the mean $\mathrm { A U C } _ { \mathrm { 0 - t a u , s s } } , C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } ,$ and $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ ratios of ainuovirine with acceptable precision. The predictive performance of the final PBPK model for the interaction scenario is excellent, because the ratios of predictedto-observed $C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } }$ and $\mathrm { A U C } _ { 0 - \infty , \mathrm { s s } }$ are very close to 1.0 (1.00 and 1.11, respectively), which provides high confidence in the model’s simulations for dose optimization. The clinical observation of ainuovirine is based on its Phase 1 study (ADYY-ACC007-103) and the current clinical study. The mean predicted/observed $\mathrm { A U C } _ { \mathrm { 0 - t a u , s s } } , C _ { \mathrm { m a x , s s } } ,$ and $C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } }$ ratios are within 0.5- to 2.0-fold in Tables 6 and 7, indicating the model can simulate plasma concentrations of ainuovirine and predict DDI with fluconazole. Based on the findings of PBPK modelling, the model-predicted $\mathrm { C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } } }$ for the 20 mg dose under fluconazole inhibition is higher than the observed $\mathrm { C _ { \mathrm { t r o u g h } } }$ for the 150 mg dose alone, indicating that the reduced dose will maintain efficacy while preventing overexposure. Although the presented DDI model can predict the exposure of ainuovirine when coadministered with fluconazole, further clinical studies are needed to verify the model and to confirm the applicability of its predictions for individual patients. The major limitation of this study is that the subjects in this trial were predominantly Chinese healthy individuals and it would have been beneficial if the determination of CYP2C19 genotypes of the enrolled healthy individuals had been included.41,42 An analysis of the effect of different genotypes on the degree of DDI would have been of interest.

## Data Sharing Statement

The datasets in this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## Ethics Approval and Informed Consent

This study was registered at chinactr.org.cn (Registration number: ChiCTR2300070530). The study protocol and subject consent forms were reviewed and approved by the Medical Ethics Committees of Guangzhou Eighth People’s Hospital (ethical approval batch number: 202302196), Guangzhou Medical University, and conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Good Clinical Practice Guidelines (GCP) and local regulatory requirements. All subjects provided written informed consent form.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank all people who participated in the study.

## Author Contributions

All authors made a significant contribution to the work reported, whether that is in the conception, study design, execution, acquisition of data, analysis and interpretation, or in all these areas; took part in drafting, revising or critically

reviewing the article; gave final approval of the version to be published; have agreed on the journal to which the article has been submitted; and agree to be accountable for all aspects of the work.

## Funding

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (82302513), Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (2022A1515110546), Science and Technology Project of Guangzhou (2023A03J0801, 2025A04J4043) and the Key Medical Discipline of Guangzhou (Infectious Diseases, 2025-2027).

## Disclosure

The authors report no conflicts of interest.

## References

1. Limper AH, Adenis A, Le T, Harrison TS. Fungal infections in HIV/AIDS. Lancet Infect Dis. 2017;17:e334–e343. doi:10.1016/S1473-3099(17) 30303-1

2. Sati H, Alastruey-Izquierdo A, Perfect J, et al. HIV and fungal priority pathogens. Lancet HIV. 2023;10:e750–e754. doi:10.1016/S2352-3018(23) 00174-1

3. Denning DW. Minimizing fungal disease deaths will allow the UNAIDS target of reducing annual AIDS deaths below 500 000 by 2020 to be realized. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2016;371:20150468. doi:10.1098/rstb.2015.0468

4. De Clercq E. Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs): past, present, and future. Chem Biodivers. 2004;1:44–64. doi:10.1002/ cbdv.200490012

5. Zhuang C, Pannecouque C, De Clercq E, Chen F. Development of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs): our past twenty years. Acta Pharm Sin B. 2020;10:961–978. doi:10.1016/j.apsb.2019.11.010

6. Nastri BM, Pagliano P, Zannella C, et al. HIV and drug-resistant subtypes. Microorganisms. 2023;11:221. doi:10.3390/microorganisms11010221

7. Bazzo GC, Mostafa D, França MT, Pezzini BR, Stulzer HK. How tenofovir disoproxil fumarate can impact on solubility and dissolution rate of efavirenz? Int J Pharm. 2019;570:118597. doi:10.1016/j.ijpharm.2019.118597

8. Cristofoletti R, Nair A, Abrahamsson B, et al. Biowaiver monographs for immediate release solid oral dosage forms: efavirenz. J Pharm Sci. 2013;102:318–329. doi:10.1002/jps.23380

9. Kaewpoowat Q, Chaiwarith R, Yasri S, et al. Drug–drug interaction between itraconazole capsule and efavirenz in adults with HIV for talaromycosis treatment. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2021;76:1041–1045. doi:10.1093/jac/dkaa521

10. Lanman T, Letendre S, Ma Q, Bang A, Ellis R. CNS Neurotoxicity of antiretrovirals. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2021;16:130–143. doi:10.1007/ s11481-019-09886-7

11. Hao X, Ni J, Zhao D, et al. No meaningful drug-drug interactions are associated with the coadministration of ACC007, lamivudine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2023;67:e01219–01222. doi:10.1128/aac.01219-22

12. Su B, Gao G, Wang M, et al. Efficacy and safety of ainuovirine versus efavirenz combination therapies with lamivudine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for medication of treatment-naïve HIV-1-positive adults: week 48 results of a randomized controlled Phase 3 clinical trial followed by an open-label setting until week 96. Lancet Reg Health West Pac. 2023;36:100769. doi:10.1016/j.lanwpc.2023.100769

13. Cha Y-J, Lim KS, Park M-K, et al. Pharmacokinetics and tolerability of the new second-generation nonnucleoside reverse- transcriptase inhibitor KM-023 in healthy subjects. Drug Des Dev Ther. 2014;8:1613–1619. doi:10.2147/DDDT.S65596

14. Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, et al. Clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the infectious diseases society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;62:e1–e50. doi:10.1093/cid/civ933

15. Chang CC, Harrison TS, Bicanic TA, et al. Global guideline for the diagnosis and management of cryptococcosis: an initiative of the ECMM and ISHAM in cooperation with the ASM. Lancet Infect Dis. 2024;24:e495–e512. doi:10.1016/S1473-3099(23)00731-4

16. Chen L, van Rhee KP, Wasmann RE, et al. Total bodyweight and sex both drive pharmacokinetic variability of fluconazole in obese adults. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2022;77:2217–2226. doi:10.1093/jac/dkac160

17. Ripa S, Ferrante L, Prenna M. Pharmacokinetics of fluconazole in normal volunteers. Chemotherapy. 2009;39:6–12. doi:10.1159/000238967

18. Niwa T, Shiraga T, Takagi A. Effect of antifungal drugs on cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4 activities in human liver microsomes. Biol Pharm Bull. 2005;28:1805–1808. doi:10.1248/bpb.28.1805

19. Chen Y, Ogasawara K, Wood-Horrall R, et al. Effect of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics of a single dose of fedratinib in healthy adults. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2022;90:325–334. doi:10.1007/s00280-022-04464-w

20. Kang BC, Yang CQ, Cho HK, Suh OK, Shin WG. Influence of fluconazole on the pharmacokinetics of omeprazole in healthy volunteers. Biopharm Drug Dispos. 2002;23:77–81. doi:10.1002/bdd.291

21. Garazzino S, Tettoni M, Calcagno A, D’Avolio A, Bonora S, Perri GD. Ritonavir-dependent fluconazole boosting of nelfinavir: a report of three cases. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2006;58:483–485. doi:10.1093/jac/dkl232

22. Saari TI, Laine K, Bertilsson L, Neuvonen PJ, Olkkola KT. Voriconazole and fluconazole increase the exposure to oral diazepam. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2007;63:941–949. doi:10.1007/s00228-007-0350-0

23. Lütjohann D, Stellaard F, Kerksiek A, Lötsch J, Oertel BG. Serum 4β-hydroxycholesterol increases during fluconazole treatment. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2021;77:659–669. doi:10.1007/s00228-020-03041-5

24. Debruyne D, Ryckelynck J-P. Clinical pharmacokinetics of fluconazole. Clin Pharmacokinet. 1993;24:10–27. doi:10.2165/00003088-199324010- 00002

25. Lazar JD, Wilner KD. Drug interactions with fluconazole. Rev Infect Dis. 1990;12(3):S327–333. doi:10.1093/clinids/12.supplement_3.s327

26. Poggesi I, Li LY, Jiao J, et al. Effect of fluconazole and itraconazole on the pharmacokinetics of erdafitinib in healthy adults: a randomized, open-label, drug-drug interaction study. Eur J Drug Metab Pharmacokinet. 2020;45:101–111. doi:10.1007/s13318-019-00581-9

27. Ouellet D, Bramson C, Roman D, et al. Effects of three cytochrome P450 inhibitors, ketoconazole, fluconazole, and paroxetine, on the pharmacokinetics of lasofoxifene. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2007;63:59–66. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2125.2006.02709.x

28. Li J, Kankam M, Trone D, Gammon G. Effects of CYP3A inhibitors on the pharmacokinetics of quizartinib, a potent and selective FLT3 inhibitor, and its active metabolite. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2019;85:2108–2117. doi:10.1111/bcp.14022

29. Watt KM, Cohen-Wolkowiez M, Barrett JS, et al. Physiologically based pharmacokinetic approach to determine dosing on extracorporeal life support: fluconazole in children on ECMO. CPT Pharmacometrics Syst Pharmacol. 2018;7:629–637. doi:10.1002/psp4.12338

30. Cristofoletti R, Charoo NA, Dressman JB. Exploratory investigation of the limiting steps of oral absorption of fluconazole and ketoconazole in children using an in silico pediatric absorption model. J Pharm Sci. 2016;105:2794–2803. doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2016.01.027

31. Huang L, Lei J, Yang Y, et al. Pharmacokinetic and bioequivalence evaluation of single-tablet and separate-tablet regimens for ainuovirine, lamivudine, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Chinese healthy subjects. Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev. 2024;13:70–76. doi:10.1002/cpdd.1309

32. Klomp SD, Manson ML, Guchelaar HJ, Swen JJ. Phenoconversion of cytochrome P450 metabolism: a systematic review. J Clin Med. 2020;9:2890. doi:10.3390/jcm9092890

33. Mostafa S, Kirkpatrick CMJ, Byron K, Sheffield L. An analysis of allele, genotype and phenotype frequencies, actionable pharmacogenomic (PGx) variants and phenoconversion in 5408 Australian patients genotyped for CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genes. J Neural Transm. 2019;126:5–18. doi:10.1007/s00702-018-1922-0

34. Kumar V, Brundage RC, Oetting WS, Leppik IE, Tracy TS. Differential genotype dependent inhibition of CYP2C9 in humans. Drug Metab Dispos. 2008;36:1242–1248. doi:10.1124/dmd.108.020396

35. Debruyne D. Clinical pharmacokinetics of fluconazole in superficial and systemic mycoses. Clin Pharmacokinet. 1997;33:52–77. doi:10.2165/ 00003088-199733010-00005

36. Kakuda TN, Van Solingen-Ristea R, Aharchi F, et al. Pharmacokinetics and short-term safety of etravirine in combination with fluconazole or voriconazole in HIV-negative volunteers. J Clin Pharmacol. 2013;53:41–50. doi:10.1177/0091270011433329

37. Manosuthi W, Athichathanabadi C, Uttayamakul S, Phoorisri T, Sungkanuparph S. Plasma nevirapine levels, adverse events and efficacy of antiretroviral therapy among HIV-infected patients concurrently receiving nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy and fluconazole. BMC Infect Dis. 2007;7:14. doi:10.1186/1471-2334-7-14

38. Vadlapatla RK, Patel M, Paturi DK, Pal D, Mitra AK. Clinically relevant drug–drug interactions between antiretrovirals and antifungals. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2014;10:561–580. doi:10.1517/17425255.2014.883379

39. Guest EJ, Aarons L, Houston JB, Rostami-Hodjegan A, Galetin A. Critique of the two-fold measure of prediction success for tratios: application for the assessment of drug-drug interactions. Drug Metab Dispos. 2011;39:170–173. doi:10.1124/dmd.110.036103

40. Hanke N, Frechen S, Moj D, et al. PBPK models for CYP3A4 and P-gp DDI prediction: a modeling network of rifampicin, itraconazole, clarithromycin, midazolam, alfentanil, and digoxin. CPT. 2018;7:647–659. doi:10.1002/psp4.12343

41. Chen L, Qin S, Xie J, et al. Genetic polymorphism analysis of CYP2C19 in Chinese han populations from different geographic areas of mainland China. Pharmacogenomics. 2008;9:691–702. doi:10.2217/14622416.9.6.691

42. Li X, Frechen S, Moj D, et al. A physiologically based pharmacokinetic model of voriconazole integrating time-dependent inhibition of CYP3A4, genetic polymorphisms of CYP2C19 and predictions of drug–drug interactions. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2020;59:781–808. doi:10.1007/s40262-019- 00856-z

Drug Design, Development and Therapy

Publish your work in this journal

Dovepress Taylor & Francis Group

Drug Design, Development and Therapy is an international, peer-reviewed open-access journal that spans the spectrum of drug design and development through to clinical applications. Clinical outcomes, patient safety, and programs for the development and effective, safe, and sustained use of medicines are a feature of the journal, which has also been accepted for indexing on PubMed Central. The manuscript management system is completely online and includes a very quick and fair peer-review system, which is all easy to use. Visit http://www.dovepress.com/testimonials.php to read real quotes from published authors.

Submit your manuscript here: https://www.dovepress.com/drug-design-development-and-therapy-journal