# Comparative safety of sulfonylurea therapies on cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia outcomes among adults with type 2 diabetes and moderate cardiovascular risk: a target trial emulation

BMJ Open Diabetes Research & Care

Stacey Sklepinski ,1 Alexandria A Ratzki-Leewing ,2,3 Jeph Herrin,4   
Kavya Sindhu Swarna,5,6 Yihong Deng,5,6 Eric C Polley,7 Joshua J Neumiller,8,9   
Rodolfo J Galindo,10 Guillermo E Umpierrez ,11 Joseph S Ross,12,13   
Juan P Brito,14,15 Victor M Montori ,16,17 Bijan J Borah,5 Bradley A Maron,2,18   
Mindy M Mickelson,5 Rozalina Grubina McCoy 2,19

To cite: Sklepinski S, Ratzki-Leewing AA, Herrin J, et al. Comparative safety of sulfonylurea therapies on cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia outcomes among adults with type 2 diabetes and moderate cardiovascular risk: a target trial emulation. BMJ Open Diab Res Care 2026;14:e005646. doi:10.1136/ bmjdrc-2025-005646

Check for updates

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

For numbered affiliations see end of article.

## ABSTRACT

Introduction To examine within-class sulfonylurea safety, we compared risks of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and severe hypoglycemia among adults with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and moderate cardiovascular risk following sulfonylurea initiation.

Research design and methods We conducted a target trial emulation including adults ≥21 years old with T2D and moderate cardiovascular risk who initiated glimepiride, glipizide or glyburide between 2014 and 2021, using claims data from Optum Labs Data Warehouse and the Medicare fee-for-service 100% sample. Study outcomes were MACE (primary), expanded MACE and its components and emergency department or hospital encounters for hypoglycemia, ascertained during follow-up through 2022. Inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) was applied using propensity scores estimated using the super learner ensemble, and outcomes were examined using IPTW Cox proportional hazards models.

Results The weighted study cohort comprised 314 699 patients (mean age 66.9 years, 52.0% men, 76.6% non-Hispanic white). At 1 year, MACE was experienced by 2.5%, 2.7% and 2.8% of patients starting glimepiride, glipizide and glyburide, respectively. Compared with glimepiride, glyburide and glipizide were associated with higher risk of MACE (HR 1.10, 95% CI 1.05 to 1.16 for glyburide; HR 1.05, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.07 for glipizide). At 1 year, severe hypoglycemia was experienced by 0.3%, 0.3% and 0.4% of patients starting glimepiride, glipizide and glyburide, respectively. Glyburide was associated with a greater risk of severe hypoglycemia compared with glipizide (HR 1.43, 95% CI 1.23 to 1.65), while glipizide was associated with a lower risk compared with glimepiride (HR 0.82, 95% CI 0.77 to 0.87).

Conclusions Among adults with T2D and moderate cardiovascular risk, glimepiride was associated with lowest risk of MACE and glipizide with lowest risk of severe hypoglycemia. These results can help inform treatment selection if sulfonylureas are used for glucose-lowering.

## WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ON THIS TOPIC

⇒ To date, there have been no direct head-to-head comparisons of sulfonylurea drugs with respect to their cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia safety profiles.

## WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS

⇒ Among sulfonylurea therapy, glimepiride had the lowest cardiovascular risk, while glipizide had the lowest severe hypoglycemia risk in adults with type 2 diabetes at moderate cardiovascular risk.

HOW THIS STUDY MIGHT AFFECT RESEARCH,PRACTICE OR POLICY

⇒ Sulfonylureas remain widely used in clinical practice due to their affordability and availability, and this study offers actionable evidence to help clinicians with judicious agent selection where existing data are limited.

## INTRODUCTION

In the USA, sulfonylurea therapy remains pervasive in the management of type 2 diabetes (T2D). It is estimated that roughly a quarter of adults with T2D used a sulfonylurea between 2015 and 2018,1 despite the general decline in their use over the past decade,2 driven by the increasing availability of newer, safer (with respect to hypoglycemia and weight), and more effective (with respect to cardiovascular and kidney risk reduction) glucose-lowering medications such as glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RA) and sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i). However, sulfonylureas remain among the least costly T2D treatment options, with annual out-of-pocket costs under US\$50 for most patients in the USA (compared with GLP-1RA and SGLT2i, which can cost 100–200 times as much). Sulfonylureas are also widely covered by health plans and available in pharmacies, particularly in the setting of recent GLP-1RA shortages.3 Their low cost and accessibility also make them attractive treatment options in resource-limited settings worldwide.4 For these reasons, it is important to identify the drug(s) within this class associated with the fewest adverse events, particularly among adults with T2D at moderate risk for cardiovascular disease who comprise the majority of adults with T2D,5 for whom cardiovascular risk reduction may be a lower priority than for those with higher levels of cardiovascular risk.

Safety concerns with sulfonylurea use center around their high risk for hypoglycemia, a well-established adverse effect due to their mechanism of action that promotes insulin secretion independent of blood glucose levels.6 Additionally, concerns regarding the cardiovascular safety of sulfonylureas emerged in 1970 when tolbutamide, a first-generation sulfonylurea, was found to be associated with increased cardiovascular mortality compared with placebo.7 Since then, uncertainty regarding the withinclass safety profile of sulfonylurea agents remained. An observational study from the United Kingdom of adults with T2D initiating sulfonylureas as first-line monotherapy found that pancreas-non-specific, long-acting sulfonylureas (glimepiride and glyburide) had higher risks of hypoglycemia than the pancreas-specific, shortacting sulfonylureas (glipizide, gliclazide and tolbutamide), with no difference in acute myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, cardiovascular death or all-cause mortality between the two groups.8 In another study conducted among sulfonylurea initiators, glimepiride was associated with lower all-cause mortality compared with other second-generation sulfonylureas, though no difference was found in MI or stroke outcomes.9 In contrast, a retrospective cohort study among Ukrainian adults with T2D observed similar cardiovascular mortality with glyburide and glimepiride.10 Finally, a 2015 network meta-analysis of both randomized controlled trials and observational studies showed that glimepiride was associated with a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality compared with glyburide.11

Thus far, there have been no direct head-to-head comparisons of commonly prescribed sulfonylurea drugs regarding their cardiovascular and hypoglycemia safety profiles, limiting the ability to make informed treatment choices when sulfonylurea therapy is required. Despite heightened hypoglycemia risk,3 sulfonylureas continue to have an important role in diabetes management and are routinely used as either first-line or add-on therapies.12 As such, it is important to understand which sulfonylurea drug, if any, is associated with the fewest cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia adverse events. It is also important to examine sulfonylurea use not only as first-line or second-line therapy (as examined in other studies) but in any clinical context as implemented in routine care settings. To address these knowledge gaps, support shared decision-making between patients and clinicians, and inform formulary decisions, we utilized claims data for adults with T2D and moderate cardiovascular risk who were enrolled in commercial, Medicare Advantage and Medicare fee-for-service health plans across the USA to directly compare three commonly available sulfonylureas—glimepiride, glipizide and glyburide—with respect to their cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia outcomes.

## METHODS

## Study design

This is a prespecified secondary analysis of a larger emulated target trial comparing GLP-1RA, SGLT2i, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP4i) and sulfonylureas among adults with T2D at moderate cardiovascular risk on cardiovascular, microvascular, and safety endpoints (NCT05214573) focusing on cardiovascular and hypoglycemia outcomes within the sulfonylurea class. The rationale, methods, and results of the study’s primary effectiveness endpoints have been previously published.13 Online supplemental table 1 compares each step of the target trial and its emulation. The study was determined as exempt by the Mayo Clinic Institutional Review Board and is reported in accordance with Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology guidelines.

## Data sources

Consistent with the main (across glucose-lowering classes) comparison13 and prior secondary analyses examining cardiovascular outcomes within the GLP-1RA class,14 we used deidentified claims data from the Optum Labs Data Warehouse (OLDW) linked to the 100% sample of Medicare parts A, B and D claims. The OLDW includes longitudinal medical and pharmacy claims and enrollment records for enrollees in commercial and Medicare Advantage health plans, representing a diverse mix of ages, racial and ethnic groups, and geographic regions across the USA.15

## Study cohort

We identified adults ≥21 years of age filling their first sulfonylurea prescription for glimepiride, glipizide or glyburide between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2021 (online supplemental figure 1). The date of the first fill served as the index date. We required patients to have 12 months of baseline enrollment without a sulfonylurea fill (to ensure a new user design and capture baseline characteristics) and a second fill of the same drug with no more than a 30-day coverage gap to confirm use and not have filled a different sulfonylurea during this time (analogous to a trial wash-in period). In a sensitivity analysis, we set the second sulfonylurea fill date as the index date, excluding 5390 patients (1.7% of the original cohort) who had experienced any study outcome between the first and the second sulfonylurea fill dates. Key exclusion criteria during the 12-month baseline period included: (1) missing year of birth, sex, or region as of the index date; (2) death date before index date; (3) both commercial and Medicare coverage on the index date; (4) insulin fill (online supplemental table 2) or (5) ICD-9/10 codes for type 1 diabetes, metastatic cancer, and pregnancy (online supplemental table 3). Consistent with the objectives of the parent study,13 the cohort was limited to individuals with T2D at moderate cardiovascular risk, defined as an estimated 1%–5% annualized risk of experiencing a modified major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) comprised of MI, stroke or all-cause mortality, and calculated, using covariates from the baseline 12-month period, with the Annualized Claims-based MACE Estimator.5

## Outcomes

The primary outcome was time from initiating treatment to modified MACE, defined as in our prior work13 14 as the composite of emergency department (ED) visits or hospitalizations for MI or stroke (both diagnoses in first position on the claim) or all-cause mortality, whichever occurred first. Secondary outcomes were time to expanded MACE (defined as MACE plus hospitalization for heart failure (HHF) and arterial revascularization procedure), time to each component of expanded MACE and hypoglycemia requiring an ED visit or hospitalization. Diagnosis codes used to ascertain these outcomes are detailed in online supplemental table 4. Mortality data were obtained from multiple sources and combined by OLDW prior to being used by the research team, the source of mortality data including the Social Security Administration Death Master File, deceased status from OLDW-linked electronic health records, death as a reason for disenrollment from an included health plan, death indicated by inpatient discharge status, obituary information and Medicare Advantage beneficiary report information.

## Independent variables

As in prior work,13 14 c ovariates included in the propensity score model were ascertained from the baseline 12-month period and included demographics (age, sex, race/ethnicity, US census region), clinical comorbidities (online supplemental table 5), unplanned hospitalizations and medications (online supplemental table 2). Missing or unknown race/ethnicity, US region and prescriber specialty were analyzed as separate subcategories within their respective variables; there was no other missing data.

## Statistical analysis

Consistent with the parent study,13 our primary analytic approach was under the modified intention-to-treat (ITT) framework, observing patients until death, disenrollment or end of the study period (31 December 2022), whichever came first. We first estimated propensity scores to model the probability of treatment assignment for each sulfonylurea drug (vs. the pool of the other two), including the baseline covariates detailed above in a diverse set of individual binomial prediction algorithms included in the SuperLearner ensemble, as detailed in online supplemental methods.16 The super learner framework allows for flexible estimation of an ensemble predictor with the theoretical properties of cross-validation for model selection to control for overfitting.17 The predicted propensity scores were evaluated for evidence of violations of the positivity assumption using histograms. Due to the presence of extreme weights, stabilized inverse propensity score weights were used to create the weighted study cohort.

We evaluated baseline covariate balance across the weighted treatment groups using standardized mean differences (SMD), calculating SMDs for each pairwise comparison and assuming good balance if the absolute maximum SMD across the pairwise comparisons did not exceed 0.1. We calculated inverse probability of treatment weighting (IPTW) follow-up times for the ITT and as-treated analyses using the Kaplan-Meier method.18 Cumulative incidence curves were estimated by first taking the pseudo values of the Kaplan-Meier estimate at each unique event time and then applying propensity scores weighted averages of the pseudo values. Isotonic regression is then applied to enforce monotonicity of the cumulative incidence curve.

Then, to assess the relative effect of each medication on the outcomes, the stabilized inverse propensity score weights were incorporated into cause-specific Cox proportional hazards models, one for each outcome, with all treatment groups. No additional variables were included in the outcome models as treatment arms were fully balanced (SMD<0.1) on the measured baseline covariates. For outcomes that did not include death, death was modeled as a separate cause in survival analyses using cause-specific models.19 For each model, we tested the proportional hazards assumption using the Grambsch and Therneau test.20 A single overall omnibus test for the HRs all being equal to each other versus at least one different was conducted at the 0.05 significance level, and simulation was used to estimate 95% CIs for each pairwise contrast. Finally, to better interpret the magnitude of the effects, we used these models to estimate adjusted event rates within 1, 2 and 3 years after treatment initiation.

## Sensitivity analyses

To examine heterogeneous treatment effects across varying levels of baseline kidney function, we repeated analyses stratified by chronic kidney disease (CKD) status: CKD stages 3–4, kidney failure (CKD stage 5, end-stage kidney disease or need for kidney replacement therapy), and all others (ie, without stage 3 or worse CKD).

Two additional sensitivity analyses were conducted using an as-treated approach, whereby patients were censored on: (1) discontinuation of the assigned treatment (ie, a gap of >30 days following the dispensed pill count), death, disenrollment from the health plan or end of study period, whichever came first and (2) discontinuation of the assigned treatment, addition of another glucose-lowering drug, death, disenrollment from the health plan or end of study period, whichever came first.

## Falsification endpoint analysis

Falsification endpoint analysis was performed to evaluate the sensitivity of the treatment effects of potential unmeasured confounders, assessing hospitalizations for pneumonia and appendicitis as the a priori defined falsification endpoints (online supplemental table 4).21 22

## RESULTS

After exclusions, we identified 316 636 adults with T2D who initiated glimepiride (n=143688), glipizide (n=156351) or glyburide (n=16597) between 2014 and 2021 (online supplemental figure 1). The unweighted baseline characteristics are shown in online supplemental table 6. After IPTW, the study cohorts were well balanced on all covariates with all SMD <0.10 (table 1; online supplemental table 7). The final weighted study population included 143 642 patients initiating glimepiride (mean age 66.9 (SD 7.8), 76.5% non-Hispanic white, 52.0% male), 156 343 patients initiating glipizide (mean age 66.9 (SD 7.9), 76.5% non-Hispanic white, 52.0% male), and 14 714 patients initiating glyburide (mean age 66.8 (SD 7.8), 78.0% non-Hispanic white, 52.5% male). Concomitant use of other glucose-lowering medications was also balanced among each group, with approximately 76% treated with metformin, 5% with a thiazolidinedione, 3% with GLP-1RA, 5% with SGLT2i and 16% with DPP4i. Median IPTW follow-up times were 39.70 months (IQR 39.47–39.90) in the glimepiride group, 38.98 months (38.75–39.18) in the glipizide group and 37.83 months (36.97–38.59) in the glyburide group (online supplemental table 8).

The estimated proportions (probabilities) of patients experiencing each outcome at 1, 2 and 3 years following treatment initiation are shown in table 2. The estimated proportions of experiencing MACE following initiation of glimepiride, glipizide or glyburide were 2.5%, 2.7% and 2.8% at 1 year after treatment initiation, respectively, and increased to 8.8%, 9.2% and 9.7% at 3 years. The proportions experiencing expanded MACE were 8.4%, 8.7% and 8.9% at 1 year after glimepiride, glipizide or glyburide treatment initiation, increasing to 18.5%, 19.0% and 19.5% at 3 years, respectively. Severe hypoglycemia resulting in ED or hospital care was less frequent, with predicted probabilities of 0.3%, 0.3% and 0.4% at 1 year after glimepiride, glipizide or glyburide initiation, increasing to 1.0%, 0.8% and 1.1% at 3 years, respectively. Estimates of absolute risk differences for each pairwise comparison are shown in figure 1.

The IPTW cumulative incidence curves for each study outcome are shown in figure 2. When compared with glimepiride, glipizide was associated with a higher risk of MACE (HR 1.05, 95%CI 1.03 to 1.07), expanded MACE (HR 1.03, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.04) and all-cause mortality (HR 1.05, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.08) but a lower risk of severe hypoglycemia (HR 0.82, 95% CI 0.77 to 0.87) (table 3). Glyburide was associated with a higher risk of MACE (HR 1.10, 95%CI 1.05 to 1.16), expanded MACE (HR 1.06, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.10), stroke (HR 1.14, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.29) and MI (HR 1.19, 95% CI 1.07 to 1.33) compared with glimepiride. Glyburide was associated with a higher risk of MI (HR 1.15, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.27) and severe hypoglycemia (HR 1.43, 95%CI 1.23 to 1.65) when compared with glipizide.

We repeated the analyses using the second sulfonylurea fill date as the index date for outcome ascertainment. The cohort was fully balanced on all baseline characteristics (online supplemental table 9). All results were consistent with the main analyses (online supplemental table 10).

When assessing heterogeneous treatment effects by baseline CKD status, the subset with baseline CKD was small: 18 659 patients with CKD stages 3 and 4 and 1414 patients with kidney failure, compared with the 296 563 patients without CKD stage 3 or worse. All results, stratified by baseline kidney function, are shown in online supplemental tables 11–13. Results for the group without moderate/advanced CKD were consistent with the overall analysis (online supplemental table 11). Among those with CKD 3–4, there was no significant difference between the different sulfonylureas in any cardiovascular outcome, but the risk of hypoglycemia was lower with glipizide versus glimepiride use (HR 0.67, 95% CI 0.54 to 0.82; online supplemental table 12). Among those with kidney failure, glipizide was associated with a higher risk of MI (HR 2.50; 95% CI 1.28 to 4.83) and revascularization (HR 1.49, 95% CI 1.05 to 2.13) compared with glimepiride (online supplemental table 13).

Results of both as-treated sensitivity analyses were consistent with the primary ITT analysis, though some comparisons lost precision and were no longer statistically significant. For the hypoglycemia outcome, however, results showed greater precision, with glipizide consistently having lower rates of severe hypoglycemia than the other two drugs (glipizide vs. glimepiride: HR 0.85, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.96 in the first sensitivity analysis, HR 0.83, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.95 in the second sensitivity analysis; glyburide vs. glipizide: HR 1.64, 95% CI 1.26 to 2.16 in the first sensitivity analysis, HR 1.79, 95% CI 1.29 to 2.46 in the second sensitivity analysis) (online supplemental tables 14 and 15).

There was no statistically significant difference in either falsification endpoint (hospitalizations for pneumonia or appendicitis), with p values >0.05 (online supplemental table 16).

## DISCUSSION

In this target trial emulation, we compared glimepiride, glipizide and glyburide head-to-head in a large, nationwide cohort of adults with T2D at moderate cardiovascular risk and found glimepiride to be associated with lower risks of MACE and expanded MACE compared with glipizide and glyburide but with higher risk of severe hypoglycemia compared with glipizide. The cardiovascular advantage of glimepiride was driven primarily by death (compared with glipizide), stroke (compared with glyburide) and MI (compared with glyburide), but there was no difference between the sulfonylurea drugs with respect to HHF or arterial revascularization procedures. These findings suggest that if sulfonylureas are to be used for glucose-lowering among adults with T2D at moderate cardiovascular risk, glimepiride may be the safest option, but patients should be educated on preventing, recognizing, and treating hypoglycemia, which remains the greatest preventable adverse effect of sulfonylurea therapy.

<table><tr><td>Table 1</td><td colspan="4">Baseline patient characteristics, by treatment arm, after inverse probability of treatment weighting</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Glimepiride (N=1 436 42.3)</td><td>Glipizide N=1563 42.5)</td><td>Glyburide N=4713.8)</td><td>Largest SMD</td></tr><tr><td>Age, years, mean (SD)</td><td>66.9 (7.84)</td><td>66.9 (7.85)</td><td>66.8 (7.83)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>Age group, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>0.05</td></tr><tr><td>&lt;45 years</td><td>996.0 (0.7)</td><td>1156.4 (0.7)</td><td>73.5 (0.5)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>45-49 years</td><td>4094.0 (2.9)</td><td>4494.4 (2.9)</td><td>427.2 (2.9)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>50-54 years</td><td>8923.8 (6.2)</td><td>9632.1 (6.2)</td><td>957.7 (6.5)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>55-59 years</td><td>11 908.3 (8.3)</td><td>12995.5 (8.3)</td><td>1311.1 (8.9)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>60-64 years</td><td>12372.2 (8.6)</td><td>13497.3 (8.6)</td><td>1357.0 (9.2)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>65-69 years</td><td>44 428.4 (30.9)</td><td>48676.7 (31.1)</td><td>4507.3 (30.6)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>70-74 years</td><td>42 673.5 (29.7)</td><td>46 085.9 (29.5)</td><td>4172.1 (28.4)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>75-79 years</td><td>18 143.7 (12.6)</td><td>19688.9 (12.6)</td><td>1893.4 (12.9)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>≥80 years</td><td>102.5 (0.1)</td><td>115.1 (0.1)</td><td>14.5 (0.1)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Sex, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Male</td><td>74 693.8 (52.0)</td><td>81 355.3 (52.0)</td><td>7718.8 (52.5)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Female</td><td>68 948.54 (48.0)</td><td>74987.18 (48.0)</td><td>6994.99 (47.5)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Race/ethnicity, N (%)*</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>0.04</td></tr><tr><td>Asian</td><td>4213.7 (2.9)</td><td>4501.3 (2.9)</td><td>384.6 (2.6)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Black</td><td>13760.6 (9.6)</td><td>15071.9 (9.6)</td><td>1292.4 (8.8)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Hispanic</td><td>11520.1 (8.0)</td><td>12610.2 (8.1)</td><td>1149.7 (7.8)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>White</td><td>109907.5 (76.5)</td><td>119532.0 (76.5)</td><td>11483.7 (78.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other or unknown</td><td>4240.5 (3.0)</td><td>4627.0 (3.0)</td><td>403.3 (2.7)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Prescriber specialty, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>0.04</td></tr><tr><td>Cardiology</td><td>157.4 (0.1)</td><td>178.5 (0.1)</td><td>25.7 (0.2)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Endocrinology</td><td>1929.5 (1.3)</td><td>1984.6 (1.3)</td><td>146.8 (1.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Nephrology</td><td>165.2 (0.1)</td><td>208.5 (0.1)</td><td>19.1 (0.1)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Primary caret</td><td>104053.9 (72.4)</td><td>113233.7 (72.4)</td><td>10717.1 (72.8)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td>25414.5 (17.7)</td><td>27729.3 (17.7)</td><td>2600.9 (17.7)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Unknown</td><td>11 921.7 (8.3)</td><td>13007.9 (8.3)</td><td>1204.3 (8.2)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Region, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>Midwest</td><td>40 236.5 (28.0)</td><td>43586.6 (27.9)</td><td>4184.8 (28.4)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Northeast</td><td>19412.6 (13.5)</td><td>21126.4 (13.5)</td><td>1974.6 (13.4)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>South</td><td>65 053.1 (45.3)</td><td>70 835.2 (45.3)</td><td>6565.3 (44.6)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>West</td><td>18697.2 (13.0)</td><td>20497.5 (13.1)</td><td>1967.4 (13.4)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Unknown</td><td>242.9 (0.2)</td><td>296.8 (0.2)</td><td>21.7 (0.1)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Index year, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>0.05</td></tr><tr><td>2014 2015</td><td>19296.8 (13.4)</td><td>20910.3 (13.4)</td><td>2130.2 (14.5)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2016</td><td>19028.8 (13.2)</td><td>20652.6 (13.2)</td><td>2019.6 (13.7)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2017</td><td>19813.5 (13.8)</td><td>21 495.9 (13.7)</td><td>2024.3 (13.8)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>21100.4 (14.7)</td><td>22977.3 (14.7)</td><td>2161.7 (14.7)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2018</td><td>20 574.0 (14.3)</td><td>22 403.6 (14.3)</td><td>2062.5 (14.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2019</td><td>19959.3 (13.9)</td><td>21817.1 (14.0)</td><td>2023.7 (13.8)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2020</td><td>17855.9 (12.4)</td><td>19484.0 (12.5)</td><td>1752.5 (11.9)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2021</td><td>6013.7 (4.2)</td><td>6601.7 (4.2)</td><td>539.3 (3.7)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Data source, N (%) Medicare fee-for-service</td><td>92 045.7 (64.1)</td><td>100158.1 (64.1)</td><td>9789.1 (66.5)</td><td>0.05</td></tr></table>

Continued

<table><tr><td colspan="5">Table 1 Continued</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Glimepiride (N=143642.3)</td><td>Glipizide (N=156342.5)</td><td>Glyburide (N=14713.8)</td><td>Largest SMD</td></tr><tr><td>OLDW</td><td>51 596.64 (35.9)</td><td>56 184.38 (35.9)</td><td>4924.69 (33.5)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Cardiovascular comorbidities, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Acute MI, months 1-9‡</td><td>255.8 (0.2)</td><td>285.7 (0.2)</td><td>24.7 (0.2)</td><td>0.00</td></tr><tr><td>Acute MI, months 10-12‡</td><td>53.8 (0.0)</td><td>64.8 (0.0)</td><td>&lt;11 (0.0)</td><td>0.00</td></tr><tr><td>Coronary artery disease (other than Ml)</td><td>22 534.5 (15.7)</td><td>24475.7 (15.7)</td><td>2277.8 (15.5)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Acute stroke, months 19‡</td><td>171.1 (0.1)</td><td>184.4 (0.1)</td><td>14.3 (0.1)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Acute stroke, months 1012‡</td><td>33.0 (0.0)</td><td>40.0 (0.0)</td><td>&lt;11 (0.0)</td><td>0.00</td></tr><tr><td>Cerebrovascular disease (other than stroke)</td><td>8355.0 (5.8)</td><td>9075.6 (5.8)</td><td>808.2 (5.5)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>HHF, months 1-9‡</td><td>120.9 (0.1)</td><td>139.8 (0.1)</td><td>&lt;11 (0.1)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>HHF, months 1012‡</td><td>91.6 (0.1)</td><td>109.5 (0.1)</td><td>&lt;11 (0.0)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Heart failure (other)</td><td>947.4 (0.7)</td><td>1048.3 (0.7)</td><td>83.8 (0.6)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Revascularization, months 19‡</td><td>1691.9 (1.2)</td><td>1836.5 (1.2)</td><td>161.8 (1.1)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Revascularization, months 1012‡</td><td>747.8 (0.5)</td><td>808.5 (0.5)</td><td>64.0 (0.4)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Unplanned hospitalizations</td><td>12076.6 (8.4)</td><td>13312.4 (8.5)</td><td>1161.9 (7.9)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>Medications, N (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Anti-platelet drug</td><td>6701.0 (4.7)</td><td>7314.5 (4.7)</td><td>645.6 (4.4)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Diuretics</td><td>55357.8 (38.5)</td><td>60350.4 (38.6)</td><td>5652.0 (38.4)</td><td>0.00</td></tr><tr><td>RAAS inhibitors</td><td>96378.5 (67.1)</td><td>104956.8 (67.1)</td><td>9881.0 (67.2)</td><td>0.00</td></tr><tr><td>Sacubitril/valsartan</td><td>95.5 (0.1)</td><td>103.9 (0.1)</td><td>12.6 (0.1)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>MRA</td><td>3489.2 (2.4)</td><td>3691.0 (2.4)</td><td>341.5 (2.3)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Beta-blockers</td><td>48 329.4 (33.6)</td><td>52713.1 (33.7)</td><td>4919.5 (33.4)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Calcium channel blockers</td><td>36 330.4 (25.3)</td><td>39513.2 (25.3)</td><td>3604.4 (24.5)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>Other antihypertensives</td><td>6898.4 (4.8)</td><td>7560.5 (4.8)</td><td>667.4 (4.5)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Lipid-lowering drug</td><td>96 658.0 (67.3)</td><td>105220.5 (67.3)</td><td>9849.2 (66.9)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Anticoagulants</td><td>7511.7 (5.2)</td><td>8157.4 (5.2)</td><td>726.2 (4.9)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Metformin</td><td>109502.3 (76.2)</td><td>119260.4 (76.3)</td><td>11257.1 (76.5)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Thiazolidinediones</td><td>7151.4 (5.0)</td><td>7687.8 (4.9)</td><td>704.0 (4.8)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>DPP4 inhibitors</td><td>22 730.5 (15.8)</td><td>24641.5 (15.8)</td><td>2300.2 (15.6)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>GLP-1 receptor agonists</td><td>4976.1 (3.5)</td><td>5341.2 (3.4)</td><td>446.3 (3.0)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>SGLT2 inhibitors</td><td>7908.6 (5.5)</td><td>8500.6 (5.4)</td><td>770.7 (5.2)</td><td>0.01</td></tr></table>

All numbers are weighted. None of the covariates had maximum SMD between groups exceeding 0.10, the prespecified threshold for a significant difference between groups.  
\*Race is classified in the Optum Labs Data Warehouse (OLDW) as Asian, Hispanic, non-Hispanic Black (Black) and non-Hispanic White (White). Other is a race and ethnicity choice in OLDW; no additional information is available. †Primary care includes internal medicine and family medicine.  
‡Months count begins at the start of the 12 months baseline period prior to the first prescription fill, such that events present during months 1–9 occurred more than 3months before the index date, while those that were present during months 10–12 occurred within 3months of the index date (ie, are most recent).  
DPP4, dipeptidyl peptidase 4; GLP-1, glucagon-like-peptide-1; HHF, hospitalization for heart failure; MI, myocardial infarction; MRA,  
mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists; OLDW, Optum Labs Data Warehouse; RAAS, renin angiotensin aldosterone system; SGLT2, sodiumglucose co-transporter 2; SMD, standardized mean difference.

Table 2 Predicted probabilities of each sulfonylurea agent and cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia outcome by duration of treatment
<table><tr><td></td><td>MACE</td><td>Expanded MACE</td><td>All-cause mortality</td><td>Acute stroke</td><td>Acute Ml</td><td>HHF</td><td>Revascularization</td><td>Hypoglycemia</td></tr><tr><td>1 year</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Glimepiride</td><td>2.5%</td><td>8.4%</td><td>1.1%</td><td>0.6%</td><td>0.7%</td><td>0.5%</td><td>5.6%</td><td>0.3%</td></tr><tr><td>Glipizide</td><td>2.7%</td><td>8.7%</td><td>1.1%</td><td>0.6%</td><td>0.7%</td><td>0.5%</td><td>5.6%</td><td>0.3%</td></tr><tr><td>Glyburide</td><td>2.8%</td><td>8.9%</td><td>1.1%</td><td>0.7%</td><td>0.8%</td><td>0.6%</td><td>5.8%</td><td>0.4%</td></tr><tr><td>2 years</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Glimepiride</td><td>5.5%</td><td>13.8%</td><td>2.8%</td><td>1.2%</td><td>1.3%</td><td>1.1%</td><td>8.2%</td><td>0.7%</td></tr><tr><td>Glipizide</td><td>5.8%</td><td>14.2%</td><td>2.9%</td><td>1.2%</td><td>1.4%</td><td>1.1%</td><td>8.2%</td><td>0.5%</td></tr><tr><td>Glyburide</td><td>6.1%</td><td>14.6%</td><td>2.9%</td><td>1.4%</td><td>1.6%</td><td>1.2%</td><td>8.6%</td><td>0.8%</td></tr><tr><td>3 years</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Glimepiride</td><td>8.8%</td><td>18.5%</td><td>4.7%</td><td>1.8%</td><td>2.0%</td><td>1.7%</td><td>10.2%</td><td>1.0%</td></tr><tr><td>Glipizide</td><td>9.2%</td><td>19.0%</td><td>4.9%</td><td>1.9%</td><td>2.1%</td><td>1.7%</td><td>10.2%</td><td>0.8%</td></tr><tr><td>Glyburide</td><td>9.7%</td><td>19.5%</td><td>4.9%</td><td>2.1%</td><td>2.4%</td><td>1.9%</td><td>10.6%</td><td>1.1%</td></tr></table>

HHF, hospitalization for heart failure; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular event; MI, myocardial infarction.

Previous studies examining the cardiovascular safety of second-generation sulfonylureas, particularly as used in contemporary practice rather than strictly as monotherapy or as add-on to metformin only, have been inconclusive. Several observational studies and network meta-analyses have conducted limited indirect comparisons, finding either comparable cardiovascular effects8 11 or glimepiride favorability23 relative to other sulfonylureas including glibenclamide, gliclazide and tolbutamide, which are rarely used in the USA today. However, no head-to-head comparison of cardiovascular safety between glimepiride, glipizide and glyburide (the second-generation sulfonylureas used most often in US clinical practice) has been done. Notably, glimepiride is the only sulfonylurea that has been shown to have a non-inferior cardiovascular risk profile compared with both placebo24 (from an indirect comparison leveraging data from the Cardiovascular Outcome Study of Linagliptin vs Glimepiride in Type 2 Diabetes (CAROLINA) and Cardiovascular and Renal Microvascular Outcome Study With Linagliptin (CARMELINA) trials) and linagliptin25 (from a randomized controlled trial); the other sulfonylureas were not examined in this context. Still, the CAROLINA trial (comparing linagliptin to glimepiride) only included adults with T2D and established or high cardiovascular risk, leaving uncertainty about the effects of these medications in adults with T2D at moderate cardiovascular risk, who make up over two-thirds of adults with T2D. 5

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=9>All-Cause                                                   Arterial     HypoglycemicMACE    Expanded MACE   Mortality       Stroke       Acute MI        HHF    Revascularization   Crisis</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Glipizide - Glimepiride</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.2</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.3</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.03</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.03</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.02</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.02</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>-0.06</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1 year Glyburide - Glimepiride</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.3</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.5</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.09</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.13</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.06</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.27</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.06</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Glyburide - Glipizide</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.1</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.2</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.06</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.1</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.04</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.25</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.12</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Glipizide - Glimepiride</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.3</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.4</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.1</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.04</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.05</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.04</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.02</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>-0.12</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>2 year Glyburide - GlimepirideGlyburide - Glipizide</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.6</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.8</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.1</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.17</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.24</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.12</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.39</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.1</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.3</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.4</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.13</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.19</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.08</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.37</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.22</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Glipizide - Glimepiride</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.4</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.5</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.2</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.07</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.08</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.06</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.03</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>-0.18</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>3 year Glyburide - GlimepirideGlyburide - Glipizide</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.9</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>1</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.2</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.26</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.37</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.18</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.48</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.16</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.5</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.5</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.19</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.29</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.12</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.45</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>0.34</td></tr></table>

Figure 1 Absolute differences in the predicted probabilities of cardiovascular outcomes over 3 years of follow-up. Green color indicates higher estimated event rate in the first drug of the compared pair, while red color indicates a lower event rate. Color intensity corresponds to greater magnitude of the absolute difference between the treatment pairs being compared. HHF, hospitalization for heart failure; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular event; MI, myocardial infarction.

<!-- image-->  
Figure 2 Cumulative incidence of cardiovascular outcomes of sulfonylurea therapies after inverse probability of treatment weighting. ED, emergency department; MACE, major adverse cardiovascular event.

The mechanism underlying glimepiride’s relative advantage compared with glipizide and glyburide may stem from its favorable effects on metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, such as lowering total cholesterol, triglyceride and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels while increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels.23 We also found that glyburide had a higher risk of MACE and expanded MACE compared with glimepiride, though reassuringly its use has declined over the past decade and is currently the least prescribed secondgeneration sulfonylurea.26

Sulfonylureas as a class are associated with a higher risk of hypoglycemia compared with DPP4is, GLP-1RAs or SGLT2is.27–31 In our analysis, glipizide was associated with the lowest risk of hypoglycemia requiring ED or hospital care, consistent with prior studies.32 Glipizide differs from both glyburide and glimepiride in that it is shorteracting 6 33 and more specifically stimulates pancreatic beta cells to secrete insulin,34 which could underlie our finding of its association with lower hyperglycemia risk. However, we observed a similar risk of hypoglycemia with glimepiride and glyburide, which contradicts prior studies showing a worse hypoglycemia risk profile for glyburide.35 36 Possible use of higher glyburide doses in earlier studies may partially explain this divergence, though our study is limited by the lack of dose information for the study drugs. Moreover, evolving prescribing patterns may reflect increasing awareness about glyburide’s risk and resulting efforts to avoid its use in individuals at elevated risk of hypoglycemia, such as older adults or those with kidney impairment. These prescribing trends may not be entirely accounted for in the propensity score weighting. Although our analysis adjusted for numerous covariates, residual confounding from key clinical factors not routinely captured (eg, impaired awareness of hypoglycemia, clinician judgment) may also persist. Variation in hypoglycemia definitions across studies may similarly limit direct comparisons. Nevertheless, under current prescribing practices, glimepiride and glyburide may pose more similar risks of severe hypoglycemia than previously recognized.

Strengths of our study include a large and diverse patient cohort across the USA, reflecting contemporary use patterns of sulfonylureas, including monotherapy and as add-on treatment to other glucose-lowering medications. Due to the time, costs and resources needed to conduct a large, randomized controlled trial of glimepiride, glipizide and glyburide, it is unlikely that such a trial—particularly for widely available and low-cost treatments like sulfonylureas—would ever be conducted. Instead, we were able to emulate an active comparator, new-user design trial and rigorously compare these medications head-to-head and under real-world care conditions. Our study cohort was comprised of individuals with private, Medicare Advantage, and traditional Medicare health plans across the USA; this dataset is likely the most generalizable longitudinal clinical database available in the absence of a healthcare database of all Americans.

<table><tr><td colspan="9">Table 3 Association between sulfonylureas and cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemic outcomes</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>MACE</td><td>Expanded MAC All-cause mortality Acute stroke Acute MI</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>HHF</td><td>Revascularization Hypoglycemia</td><td></td></tr><tr><td colspan="9"></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Glipizide vs glimepiride</td><td>HR (95% CI) 1.05</td><td>1.03</td><td>1.05</td><td>1.04</td><td>1.04</td><td>1.04</td><td></td><td>0.82</td></tr><tr><td>(1.03 to 1.07)</td><td>(1.01 to 1.04)</td><td>(1.02 to 1.08)</td><td>(0.99 to 1.09)</td><td>(1.00 to 1.09)</td><td>(0.99 to 1.09)</td><td>1.00 (0.98,1.03)</td><td>(0.77 to 0.87)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Glyburide vs glimepiride</td><td></td><td></td><td>1.05</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>1.10</td><td>1.06 (1.02 to 1.10)</td><td>(0.98 to 1.12)</td><td>1.14 (1.01 to 1.29)</td><td>1.19 (1.07 to 1.33)</td><td>1.11 (1.00 to 1.25)</td><td>1.05</td><td>1.17</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Glyburide vs glipizide</td><td>(1.05 to 1.16) 1.05</td><td>1.03</td><td>1.00</td><td>1.10</td><td>1.15</td><td>1.07</td><td>(0.99 to 1.11) 1.05</td><td>(1.00 to 1.35)</td></tr><tr><td>(1.00 to 1.11)</td><td>(0.99 to 1.07)</td><td>(0.93 to 1.07)</td><td>(0.97 to 1.24)</td><td>(1.03 to 1.27)</td><td>(0.96 to 1.20)</td><td>(0.99 to 1.11)</td><td>1.43 (1.23 to 1.65)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="10">H hospitalization orheart failure; MACE,maoradverse cardiovascular event; M myocardial infarcion.</td></tr></table>

Yet, certain limitations exist. First, all observational studies are vulnerable to unmeasured confounding. We sought to mitigate this risk by using advanced causal inference methods and conducting falsification endpoint analyses, detecting no difference in either pneumonia or appendicitis hospitalizations across the three sulfonylurea drugs. Second, we did not examine all cardiovascular endpoints, such as dysrhythmias, and could not separately examine cardiovascular deaths, as cause of death is not available in claims. Third, our study population did not include Medicaid beneficiaries or individuals without insurance, nor could we capture medications obtained outside of insurance coverage such as through low-cost generic drug programs. Fourth, gliclazide, another commonly used second-generation sulfonylurea worldwide, is not available in the USA and thus, we were unable to compare it to the other agents. We also did not differentiate between individual sulfonylurea dosages or formulations, such as between short-acting and extendedrelease glipizide. Finally, the insurance claims data from OLDW do not contain information on potential drivers of observed outcomes, notably hemoglobin A1c levels, weight, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and cardiovascular risk factors such as blood pressure and lipid profiles.

Our study also focused on severe hypoglycemic events that required medical attention. However, US studies suggest that only 10% of level 3 hypoglycemic events result in ED or hospital use, with just 5% requiring admission.37 38 Thus, while our analysis offers valuable insight into potentially preventable, resource-intensive healthcare utilization related to hypoglycemia, it may not reflect the total spectrum of hypoglycemia burden. Future research should build on this work by capturing the larger share of severe, as well as non-severe, events managed outside formal medical settings.

## CONCLUSION

This study fills a critical evidence gap by directly comparing cardiovascular and severe hypoglycemia safety risk across individual sulfonylureas, an area where robust data have been lacking. In this large, head-to-head target trial emulation, we identified important within-class safety differences among adults with T2D and moderate cardiovascular risk, with glimepiride associated with the lowest risk of cardiovascular events and glipizide showing the lowest risk of severe hypoglycemia.

These data can support shared decision-making and choice of sulfonylurea therapy, particularly as there is limited guidance for selecting glucose-lowering medications for patients with T2D at moderate cardiovascular risk. Although not recommended as first-line therapy in major guidelines, sulfonylureas remain widely prescribed in the USA and globally due to affordability and availability. As newer therapies with better safety and efficacy profiles (eg, GLP-1RAs and SGLT2is) gain precedence, the routine use of sulfonylureas, especially without regard for within-class variation, warrants re-evaluation. When sulfonylureas are used, ongoing care should prioritize judicious agent selection and individualized risk assessment, supported by shared decision-making and open communication about potential harms. This study offers actionable evidence to help clinicians navigate therapeutic constraints safely and strengthen evidence-based care across the large population of individuals with T2D and moderate cardiovascular risk.

## Author affiliations

1 School of Medicine, University of Maryland Baltimore, Baltimore, Maryland, USA 2 University of Maryland Institute for Health Computing, North Bethesda, Maryland, USA

3 Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, & Nutrition, Department of Medicine,

University of Maryland Baltimore School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA

4 Section of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA

5 Mayo Clinic Robert D and Patricia E Kern Center for the Science of Health Care Delivery, Rochester, Minnesota, USA

6 Optum Labs, Eden Prairie, Minnesota, USA

7 Department of Public Health Sciences, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA

8 Department of Pharmacotherapy, Washington State University, Pullman, Washington, USA

9 Providence Medical Research Center, Spokane, Washington, USA

10Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA

11Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, USA

12Department of Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA

13Department of Health Policy and Management, Yale School of Public Health, New Haven, Connecticut, USA

14Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, Metabolism, and Nutrition, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, New York, USA

15Knowledge and Evaluation Research Unit, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes,

Metabolism, and Nutrition, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, New York, USA

16Division of Endocrinology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA

17Knowledge and Evaluation Research Unit, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes,

Metabolism, and Nutrition, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA

18Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Maryland Baltimore School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA

19Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, & Nutrition, University of Maryland Baltimore School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA

Contributors SS: writing—original draft, visualization. AAR-L: writing—review and editing. JH: writing—review and editing, methodology. KSS: writing—review and editing, formal analysis. YD: writing—review and editing, visualization, formal analysis. ECP: writing—review and editing, methodology, formal analysis, conceptualization. JJN: writing—review and editing. RJG: writing—review and editing. GEU: writing—review and editing. JSR: writing—review and editing. JPB: writing—review and editing. VMM: writing—review and editing. BJB: writing— review and editing. BAM: writing—review and editing. MMM: writing—review and editing, project administration. RGM: writing—review and editing, supervision, funding acquisition, conceptualization. RGM is the guarantor of this work and, as such, had full access to all the data in the study and takes responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis.

Funding This work was supported by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (Award DB-2020C2-20306), University of Maryland Institute for Health Computing, Montgomery County Government, University of Maryland, Baltimore and University of Maryland, College Park. The funder had no role in study design, data collection, analysis, interpretation of data, writing of the report or in the decision to submit the article for publication.

Disclaimer The statements in this report are solely the responsibility of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, its Board of Governors or Methodology Committee.

Competing interests In the last 36 months, AAR-L received research support from Sanofi Global and Sanofi Canada. She also has served as a consultant for Novo Nordisk Global, Dexcom Canada, Abbott Canada, Sanofi US, and Sanofi Global and is on the advisory board for Sanofi US. She has received payment for presentation from Sanofi Global, Sanofi Canada, Dexcom Canada, Abbott Canada, Novo Nordisk Canada, Eli Lilly, and the American Diabetes Association. JH received support from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, NIH, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, PCORI, and the American Heart Association. JJN is supported by a NIH research grant and a foundation grant from the American College of Clinical Pharmacy, serves as a consultant to Bayer, Eli Lilly, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Proteomics International, and receives support from the American Diabetes Association for projects unrelated to this work. RJG is supported by grants from NIDDK of NIH. RJG received research support from Novo Nordisk, Boehringer, Eli Lilly, and Dexcom, and consulting/advisory from Abbott Diabetes, Astra-Zeneca, Bayer, Boehringer, Dexcom, Eli Lilly, and Novo Nordisk, and Medtronic. GEU is supported by research grants from NIH and National Center for Research Resources and has received research support (to Emory University) from Abbott, Dexcom, Corcept, and Bayer, and served as a member of advisory boards for Dexcom, Glucotrack and GlyCare. JSR receives research support through Yale University from Johnson and Johnson to develop methods of clinical trial data sharing, from FDA for the Yale-Mayo Clinic Center for Excellence in Regulatory Science and Innovation program (U01FD005938), from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (R01HS022882), and from Arnold Ventures; formerly received research support from the Medical Device Innovation Consortium as part of the National Evaluation System for Health Technology; and was an expert witness at the request of Relator’s attorneys, the Greene Law Firm, in a qui tam suit alleging violations of the False Claims Act and Anti-Kickback Statute against Biogen Inc. that was settled September 2022. BJB serves as a consultant to Boehringer-Ingelheim on projects unrelated to this study. RGM has received support from the NIDDK of NIH, the National Institute on Aging of the NIH, the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, and the American Diabetes Association for projects unrelated to this work. She also served as a consultant to EmmiEducate® (Wolters Kluwer) and the Yale-New Haven Health System and received speaking honoraria and travel support from the American Diabetes Association.

## Patient consent for publication Not applicable.

Ethics approval This study was reviewed by Mayo Clinic IRB and deemed exempt because it involves analysis of deidentified data. Consent for participation was not possible because all study data are deidentified, and participants cannot be contacted.

## Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; externally peer-reviewed.

Data availability statement Data may be obtained from a third party and are not publicly available. This study was conducted using deidentified data from Optum Labs Data Warehouse and linked 100% sample of Medicare fee-for-service claims. These data are third-party data owned by Optum Labs and contain sensitive patient information; therefore, the data are only available upon request. Interested researchers engaged in HIPAA-compliant research may contact connected@optum. com for data access requests. The data use agreement requires researchers to pay for rights to use and access the data. These data are subject to restrictions on sharing as a condition of access.

Supplemental material This content has been supplied by the author(s). It has not been vetted by BMJ Publishing Group Limited (BMJ) and may not have been peer-reviewed. Any opinions or recommendations discussed are solely those of the author(s) and are not endorsed by BMJ. BMJ disclaims all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance placed on the content. Where the content includes any translated material, BMJ does not warrant the accuracy and reliability of the translations (including but not limited to local regulations, clinical guidelines, terminology, drug names and drug dosages), and is not responsible for any error and/or omissions arising from translation and adaptation or otherwise.

Open access This is an open access article distributed in accordance with the Creative Commons Attribution Non Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) license, which permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon this work non-commercially, and license their derivative works on different terms, provided the original work is properly cited, appropriate credit is given, any changes made indicated, and the use is non-commercial. See: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/.

## ORCID iDs

Stacey Sklepinski https://orcid.org/0009-0009-3857-9445

Victor M Montori https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0595-2898   
Rozalina Grubina McCoy https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2289-3183

## REFERENCES

1 Fang M, Wang D, Coresh J, et al. Trends in Diabetes Treatment and Control in U.S. Adults, 1999–2018. N Engl J Med 2021;384:2219–28.

2 Engler C, Leo M, Pfeifer B, et al. Long-term trends in the prescription of antidiabetic drugs: real-world evidence from the Diabetes Registry Tyrol 2012-2018. BMJ Open Diabetes Res Care 2020;8:e001279.

3 ElSayed NA, McCoy RG, Aleppo G, et al. 9. Pharmacologic Approaches to Glycemic Treatment: Standards of Care in Diabetes—2025. Diabetes Care 2025;48:S181–206.

4 Naidoo P, Rambiritch V, Butkow N, et al. Optimal utilisation of sulphonylureas in resource-constrained settings. Cardiovasc J Afr 2014;25:83–5.

5 McCoy RG, Swarna KS, Deng Y, et al. Derivation of an Annualized Claims-Based Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event Estimator in Type 2 Diabetes. JACC Adv 2024;3:100852.

6 Sola D, Rossi L, Schianca GPC, et al. Sulfonylureas and their use in clinical practice. Arch Med Sci 2015;11:840–8.

7 Meinert CL, Knatterud GL, Prout TE, et al. A study of the effects of hypoglycemic agents on vascular complications in patients with adult-onset diabetes. II. Mortality results. Diabetes 1970;19:Suppl:.

8 Douros A, Yin H, Yu OHY, et al. Pharmacologic Differences of Sulfonylureas and the Risk of Adverse Cardiovascular and Hypoglycemic Events. Diabetes Care 2017;40:1506–13.

9 Douros A, Dell’Aniello S, Yu OHY, et al. Comparative cardiovascular and hypoglycaemic safety of glimepiride in type 2 diabetes: A population-based cohort study. Diabetes Obes Metab 2020;22:254–62.

10 Khalangot M, Tronko M, Kravchenko V, et al. Glibenclamide-related excess in total and cardiovascular mortality risks: data from large Ukrainian observational cohort study. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2009;86:247–53.

11 Simpson SH, Lee J, Choi S, et al. Mortality risk among sulfonylureas: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2015;3:43–51.

12 Mohan V, Saboo B, Khader J, et al. Position of Sulfonylureas in the Current ERA: Review of National and International Guidelines. Clin Med Insights Endocrinol Diabetes 2022;15:11795514221074663.

13 McCoy RG, Herrin J, Swarna KS, et al. Effectiveness of glucoselowering medications on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes at moderate cardiovascular risk. Nat Cardiovasc Res 2024;3:431–40.

14 Sklepinski SM, Deng Y, Swarna KS, et al. Comparative effectiveness of GLP-1 receptor agonists on cardiovascular outcomes among adults with type 2 diabetes and moderate cardiovascular risk: emulation of a target trial. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2025;229:112910.

15 Wallace PJ, Shah ND, Dennen T, et al. Optum Labs: building a novel node in the learning health care system. Health Aff (Millwood) 2014;33:1187–94.

16 Polley E, LeDell E, Kennedy C, et al. SuperLearner: super learner prediction. 2021. Available: https://CRAN.R-project.org/package= SuperLearner [Accessed 04 Oct 2023].

17 van der Laan MJ, Polley EC, Hubbard AE. Super learner. Stat Appl Genet Mol Biol 2007;6:Article25.

18 Denz R, Klaaßen-Mielke R, Timmesfeld N. A comparison of different methods to adjust survival curves for confounders. Stat Med 2023;42:1461–79.

19 Austin PC, Lee DS, Fine JP. Introduction to the Analysis of Survival Data in the Presence of Competing Risks. Circulation 2016;133:601–9.

20 Grambsch PM, Therneau TM. Proportional hazards tests and diagnostics based on weighted residuals. Biometrika 1994;81:515–26.

21 Prasad V, Jena AB. Prespecified falsification end points: can they validate true observational associations? JAMA 2013;309:241–2.

22 Lipsitch M, Tchetgen Tchetgen E, Cohen T. Negative controls: a tool for detecting confounding and bias in observational studies. Epidemiology 2010;21:383–8.

23 Xu D, Zhao S-P, Huang Q, et al. Effects of Glimepiride on metabolic parameters and cardiovascular risk factors in patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 2010;88:71–5.

24 Ghosh S, Mukhopadhyay P, Pandey P, et al. Cardiovascular safety of Glimepiride: An indirect comparison from CAROLINA and CARMELINA. Diab Vasc Dis Res 2020;17.

25 Rosenstock J, Kahn SE, Johansen OE, et al. Effect of Linagliptin vs Glimepiride on Major Adverse Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients With Type 2 Diabetes: The CAROLINA Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA 2019;322:1155–66.

26 Shin JI, Echouffo-Tcheugui JB, Fang M, et al. Trends in Use of Sulfonylurea Types Among US Adults with Diabetes: NHANES 1999- 2020. J Gen Intern Med 2023;38:2009–10.

27 McCoy RG, Swarna KS, Neumiller JJ, et al. Risk of Severe Hypoglycemia After Initiation of Noninsulin Glucose-Lowering Therapies in Adults With Type 2 Diabetes at Moderate Cardiovascular Disease Risk. Clin Diabetes 2025;43:59–70.

28 Vashisht R, Patel A, Dahm L, et al. Second-Line Pharmaceutical Treatments for Patients with Type 2 Diabetes. JAMA Netw Open 2023;6:e2336613.

29 McCoy RG, Lipska KJ, Van Houten HK, et al. Association of Cumulative Multimorbidity, Glycemic Control, and Medication Use With Hypoglycemia-Related Emergency Department Visits and Hospitalizations Among Adults With Diabetes. JAMA Netw Open 2020;3:e1919099.

30 Qian D, Zhang T, Tan X, et al. Comparison of antidiabetic drugs added to sulfonylurea monotherapy in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: A network meta-analysis. PLoS ONE 2018;13:e0202563.

31 Zhou JB, Bai L, Wang Y, et al. The benefits and risks of DPP4- inhibitors vs. sulfonylureas for patients with type 2 diabetes: accumulated evidence from randomised controlled trial. Int J Clin Pract 2016;70:132–41.

32 Leonard CE, Han X, Brensinger CM, et al. Comparative risk of serious hypoglycemia with oral antidiabetic monotherapy: A retrospective cohort study. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf 2018;27:9–18.

33 Melander A, Wåhlin-Boll E. Clinical pharmacology of glipizide. Am J Med 1983;75:41–5.

34 Sahin I, Bakiner O, Demir T, et al. Current Position of Gliclazide and Sulfonylureas in the Contemporary Treatment Paradigm for Type 2 Diabetes: A Scoping Review. Diabetes Ther 2024;15:1687–716.

35 Mantovani A, Grani G, Chioma L, et al. Severe hypoglycemia in patients with known diabetes requiring emergency department care: A report from an Italian multicenter study. J Clin Transl Endocrinol 2016;5:46–52.

36 Holstein A, Plaschke A, Egberts EH. Lower incidence of severe hypoglycaemia in patients with type 2 diabetes treated with glimepiride versus glibenclamide. Diabetes Metab Res Rev 2001;17:467–73.

37 Karter AJ, Moffet HH, Liu JY, et al. Surveillance of Hypoglycemia-Limitations of Emergency Department and Hospital Utilization Data. JAMA Intern Med 2018;178:987–8.

38 Ratzki-Leewing A, Black JE, Kahkoska AR, et al. Severe (level 3) hypoglycaemia occurrence in a real-world cohort of adults with type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus (iNPHORM, United States). Diabetes Obes Metab 2023;25:3736–47.