<!-- image-->

# Recommended self-report measures for use of menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured nicotine and tobacco products

Jenny E Ozga ,1 Krysten W Bold ,2 Daniel P Giovenco 3 Andrea C Villanti ,4 Jennifer B Unger ,5 Adam Leventhal 5 Cassandra Stanton

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.

## BACKGROUND

Menthol tobacco products are associated with cooling sensations in the mouth or throat and the availability of fruit-flavoured or candy-flavoured nicotine products that have cooling properties (with menthone, peppermint or the synthetic coolant WS-23, eg) has grown internationally, particularly in electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS)1 2 and commercial oral nicotine products.3 In addition, non-menthol cigarettes with synthetic coolants4 5 and flavour capsule cigarettes6 7 are being sold in markets where flavoured cigarette sales are prohibited.8 Due to policies that include definitions of menthol that do not comprehensively capture additives that have similar properties or evoke similar sensory effects (eg, synthetic coolants and menthol analogues),9 introduction of these novel products and additives may allow tobacco companies to circumvent restrictions on menthol tobacco manufacturing and sales.

As the cooling flavour landscape of nicotine and tobacco products continues to evolve, tobacco scientists often adapt existing measures for survey research to assess use of such products. However, adapting measures can pose challenges if different measures are used across products or study populations. Using consistent measures and language around menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured tobacco products in survey research can help tobacco regulators and other public health agencies better understand population health effects and inform product standards.

## MEASUREMENT PRIORITIES

The Center for Coordination of Analytics, Science, Enhancement and Logistics (CASEL) in Tobacco Regulatory Science is a centre funded by the US Food & Drug Administration to support its tobacco regulatory initiatives. For this paper, CASEL assembled a group of content experts in the US to develop recommendations for a core set of measures assessing use of menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured tobacco products. First, the group compiled existing selfreport measures related to menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured nicotine and tobacco products from the PhenX Toolkit, population-level surveys, projects led by the US Tobacco Centers of Regulatory Science (TCORS) and published literature. Population-level surveys included the Population

Assessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) Study, the International Tobacco Control Survey (both adult and youth versions), the Behavioural Risk Factor Surveillance System, the National Youth Tobacco Survey, the National Health Interview Survey, the National Survey on Drug use and Health, the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey and the Tobacco Use Supplement to the Current Population Survey.

By October 2024, 254 self-report measures were collected, 175 of which were related to product use. Content experts reviewed the full list of existing measures and reached consensus on three core constructs for assessing product use, which included first use, past 30-day use and regular brand. Additional constructs (eg, use frequency, use intensity) or time periods (eg, past 12-month use and past 6-month use) could be considered for secondary measures dependent on specific research questions and if survey space allows.

## GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS

In general, we recommend a staged approach for measures adaptation in which standard questions are asked to facilitate comparison with existing studies alongside novel questions to further our understanding of the changing market. This structure helps to maintain reliability of measures over time while adapting to new products on the market. For example, if ‘cooling’ flavours were replaced by ‘heating’ flavours, this approach would be equally applicable. This structure allows researchers to keep pace with changes in product use (and the market) without changing all of our measures and impacting reliability. The recommended measures for menthol, mint and coolingflavoured product use shown in tables 1 and 2 are in the context of the current market as of October 2024.

Our group identified two broad measures recommendations in the context of the current market. First, we recommend asking about menthol, mint (including wintergreen and spearmint10), and other flavours that produce a cooling sensation in separate questions or placing them as separate response options rather than combining them into a single category. Second, given that any traditional flavour category could impart a cooling sensation if combined with cooling chemicals (eg, iced latte, strawberry freeze), we recommend asking about products that ‘produce a cooling sensation or have flavour descriptors that imply a cooling sensation’. These two approaches should allow for comparison to earlier data while simultaneously informing surveillance, interventions to reduce the harms of flavoured product use and regulatory product standards.

<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=4>Table 1 Recommended measures to assess menthol, mint, or other cooling-flavoured cigarette use</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=4>ResponseConstruct*       Original source and questions         Recommended modified questions    options        Modifications to original questions</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=4>First use          (From PATH Study Wave 8): When you first When you first started smoking cigarettes, Yes</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=4>started smoking cigarettes, did you start   did you start with cigarettes flavoured to  No</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=9 colspan=4>with cigarettes flavoured to taste like     taste like menthol?                                    cigarettes that produce a cooling sensationmenthol or mint?                     When you first started smoking cigarettes,                 or r describe s eeze&#x27; rost&#x27; e(From PATH Study Wave 8): Have you     did you start with cigarettes flavoured to                  cill, &#x27;cisp &#x27;cool smotorshingever smoked non-menthol cigarettes that  taste like mint?                                       similar in three separate questions. &#x27;Smooth&#x27;produce a cooling sensation in your mouth When you first started smoking cigarettes,                 was added as an additional descriptor foror throat?                           did you start with non-menthol cigarettes                  non-menthol cooling cigarettes.(From a 2024 TCORS Survey): In the past 30that produce a cooling sensation in yourdays, did you vape flavours that produced mouth or throat or are named or describedacooling sensationin your mouth or throatas freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, ice&#x27;, &#x27;chil&#x27;, &#x27;crisp&#x27;, cool,or were described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, &#x27;ice&#x27;,  &#x27;smooth&#x27; or something similar?&#x27;chill, &#x27;crisp&#x27;, &#x27;cool&#x27; or something similar?</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Past 30-day use</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(From PATH Study Wave 8): In the past</td><td rowspan=13 colspan=2>In the past 30 days, were any of the      Yes         Original questions adapted to ask aboutcigarettes you smoked flavoured to taste  &gt;No         past 30-day use of menthol; mint; orlike menthol?                                        non-menthol cigarettes that produce aIn the past 30 days, were any of the                      cooling sensation or are described ascigarettes you smoked flavoured to taste                   eolike mint?                                           &#x27;smooth&#x27; or something similar in threeIn the past 30 days, did any of the non-                    separate questions. &#x27;Smooth&#x27; was added asmenthol cigarettes you smoked produce                   an additional descriptor for non-menthol(From a 2024 TCORS Survey): In the past 30 a cooling sensation in your mouth or                      cooling cigarettes.throat or were they named or described ase osicechiis ol&#x27;smooth&#x27; or something similar?</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>30 days, were any of the cigarettes you</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>smoked flavoured to taste like menthol or</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>like</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>like me</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>mint?</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>In the p</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>In</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(From PATH Study Wave 8): Have you</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>cigarett</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>'freeze</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>ever smoked non-menthol cigarettes that</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>produce a cooling sensation in your mouthor throat?</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(From a 2024 TCORS Survey): In the past 30 a cooling sensation in your mouth or</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>days, did you vape flavours that produced</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>a cooling sensation in your mouth or throat</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>or were described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, &#x27;ice&#x27;,</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>&#x27;chill, &#x27;crisp&#x27;, &#x27;cool&#x27; or something similar?</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=10 colspan=4>Regular brand     (From PATH Study Wave 8): Is your regular Is your regular brand you smoke flavoured Yes         Original questions adapted to ask aboutbrand you smoke flavoured to taste like   to taste like menthol?                  No         regular use of menthol; mint or non-mentholmenthol or mint?                     Is your regular brand you smoke flavoured                 cigarettes that produce a cooling sensation(From PATH Study Wave 8): Have you     to taste like mint?                                    or are described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, &#x27;ice&#x27;,ever smoked non-menthol cigarettes that  Does your regular brand produce a cooling                 &#x27;cill, &#x27;cisp, &#x27;cool smoothorsomehingproduce a cooling sensation in your mouth sensation in your mouth or throat or is it                   similar in three separate questions. &#x27;Smooth&#x27;or throat?                           named or described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, &#x27;ice&#x27;,                 was added as an additional descriptor for(From a 2024 TCORS Survey): In the past 30chill&#x27;crisp&#x27;cool &#x27;smoothor somehing                 non-menthol cooling cigarettes.days, did you vape flavours that produced similar?a cooling sensation in your mouth or throator were described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, &#x27;ice&#x27;,&#x27;chill, &#x27;crisp&#x27;, &#x27;cool&#x27; or something similar?</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>brand you smoke flavoured to taste like</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>menthol or mint?</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>cooling sens</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>(From PATH Study Wave 8): Have you</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td><td rowspan=2 colspan=2>produce a cooling sensation in your mouthor throat?</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1></td></tr></table>

PATH Study, Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health; TCORS, Tobacco Centre of Regulatory Science.  
Recommended measures are reflective of the current market as of October 2024 and are intended to serve as templates that can be adapted to market changes. \*Additional constructs (eg, use frequency, use intensity, source of acquisition) or time periods (eg, ever use, past 12 month use, past 6-month use) could be considered for secondary measures dependent on specific research questions and if survey space allows.

## PRODUCT USE MEASURES Cigarette use

Core measures recommendations for assessing use of menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured cigarettes are shown in table 1 along with original sources, original survey items and specific measures modifications for each original item that resulted in the recommended item. Although the PATH Study Wave 8 questionnaire1 0 combined menthol and mint for cigarettes (eg, ‘When you first started smoking cigarettes, did you start with cigarettes flavored to taste like menthol or mint?’), we recommend asking about use of menthol and mint cigarettes separately. In addition, the PATH Study Wave 8 questionnaire only asks about the use of cigarettes with synthetic coolants. The recent availability of ‘non-menthol’ cigarettes with synthetic coolants in places where menthol cigarettes are prohibited in the USA4 points to a need for expanded survey questions that capture these products, including questions about past 30-day use and regular brand. Therefore, based on a combination of items from the PATH Study Wave 8 questionnaire and TCORS surveys, we recommend asking survey respondents separately about their use of non-menthol cigarettes that produce a cooling sensation in their mouth or throat, or that use descriptors implying a cooling flavour (eg, ‘frost’, ‘chill’, ‘crisp’ and ‘smooth’). Brand names could also be used as examples to help identify use of new and rapidly evolving non-menthol products.

## Non-cigarette nicotine and tobacco product use

Core measures recommendations for assessing use of menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured non-cigarette nicotine and tobacco products are shown in table 2 along with original sources, original survey items and specific measures modifications for each original item that resulted in the recommended item. Expanding on items from Wave 8 of the PATH Study10 and TCORS surveys, in the context of the current marketplace, we recommend asking about menthol, mint and other flavours that produce a cooling sensation separately using descriptors that imply a cooling flavour (eg, ‘frost’, ‘chill’, ‘crisp’ and smooth). We also recommend adding specific response options that capture use of fruit-cooling and other cooling flavour combinations (eg, strawberry ice, berry frost) when appropriate for relevant nicotine or tobacco products (eg, ENDS, oral nicotine pouches), which is similar to other surveys focused on youth use.11 12 As new cooling flavours enter the marketplace, the recommended measures may need to be adapted further to ask about new flavours separately from the existing categories or to include additional descriptors. Similarly, as noted above, using brand names may help to identify use of these products.

Table 2 Recommended measures to assess menthol, mint or other cooling-flavoured non-cigarette nicotine or tobacco products
<table><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=5>Construct*    Original source and questions          Recommended modified questions       Response options                   Modifications to original questions</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=5 colspan=5>First use      (From PATH Study Wave 8): When you first    Q1: When you first started using (PRODUCT),   Q1:                             Q1 left &#x27;s i&#x27;, though fuit-mint or icefruitstarted using (PRODUCT), which flavour did youwhich flavour did you use? Choose all that apply.&gt; Tobacco-flavoured                combinations&#x27; is recommended as an additionaluse? Choose all that apply.              Q2: Did the first (PRODUCT) you used produce  &gt;Menthol                      response option given that it is unclear whether(From a 2024 TCORS Survey): In the past 30 days,a cooling sensation in your mouth or throat or  &gt; Mint, wintergreen, or spearmint       someone who uses fruit-cooling flavours would    was it named or described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;,   &gt; Ice                         indicate that they use fruit flavours, cooling o icesensation in your mouth or throat or were    &#x27;chillcris oolhi    Fruit                         flavours, or both.e similar?                             Fruit-mint or ice-fruit combinations (suchQ2 modified to ask about first use as opposed&#x27;cool&#x27; or something similar?                                                 strawberry freeze or blueberry ice)†     to past 30-day use. Q1 also modified to includeClove or spice                   &#x27;smooth&#x27; as an additional descriptor and modifiedChocolate                     for use as a template for any non-cigaretteAn alcoholic drink (such as wine, cognac,  nicotine or tobacco product.margarita, or other cocktails)         (PRODUCT) should be replaced with the specificA non-alcoholic drink (such as coffee, soda,nicotine or tobacco product of interest.energy drinks or other beverages)      The flavour list of response options for Q1 canCandy, desserts or other sweets       be modified based on the available flavours forSome other flavour (specify)          specic products, but we encourage asking aboutQ2:                            flavour categories separately.Yes&gt; No</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>combinations&#x27; is recommended as an additional</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>response option given that it is unclear whether</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>someone who uses fruit-cooling flavours would</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>indicate that they use fruit flavours, cooling o ice</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=7 colspan=1>Past 30-day use (From PATH Study Wave 8): In the past 30 days,  In the past 30 days, which flavours ofwhich flavours of (PRoDUCT) have you used?  (PRODUCT) have you used? Choose all thatChoose all that apply.                 apply.(From a 2024 TCORS Survey): In the past 30 days,Q: In the past 30 days, did any of thedidyou vape flavours that produced a cooling  CT) o  pr  coligsensation in your mouth or throat or were    sensation in your mouth or throat or was ith  named or described as &#x27;freeze&#x27;, &#x27;frost&#x27;, &#x27;ice&#x27;, &#x27;chill,&#x27;cool&#x27; or something similar?              &#x27;crisp&#x27;, &#x27;cool&#x27;, &#x27;smooth&#x27;or something similar?</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=3>Q1:Tobacco-flavoured</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>Q1 left &#x27;as is&#x27;, though &#x27;fruit-mint or ice-fruit</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>combinations&#x27; is recommended as an additional</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>&gt; MentholMint, wintergreen r speamintIce</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>response option given that it is unclear whethersomeone who uses fruit-cooling flavours would</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=3>FruitFuit-mint or ice-ruit combinatons (such as Q2 modifi to inclue &#x27;smooth&#x27; as an addialstrawberry freeze or blueberry ice)t&gt; Clove or spiceChocolateAn alcoholic drink (such as wine, cognac,</td><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>flavours, or both.Fuit-mint or ice-ruit combinatons (such as Q2 modifi to inclue &#x27;smooth&#x27; as an addialdescriptor and modified for use as a template forany non-cigarette nicotine or tobacco product.(PRODUCT) should be replaced with the specificnicotine or tobacco product of interest.</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=3 colspan=3>margarita or other cocktails)A non-alcoholic drink (such as coffee, soda,energy drinks or other beverages)Candy, desserts or other sweetsSome other flavour (specify)Q2:YesNo</td><td rowspan=2 colspan=1>The flavour list of response options for Q1 canbe modified based on the available flavours forspecific products, but we encourage asking about</td></tr><tr></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>flavour atories eaely.</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=2 colspan=5>Regular brand   (From PATH Study Wave 8) Q1: What flavour is  Q1: What flavour is your regular brand? Choose Q1:                             Q1 let as is thouh fruit-mint or iceruityour regular brand? Choose all that apply.    all that apply.                         Tobacco-flavoured                combinations&#x27; is recommended as an additional a 2024 TCRS Survey): In the past 30 days Does your regular brand produce a cooling  &gt; Menthol                      response option given that it is unclear whetherdid you vape flavours that produced a cooling  sensation in your mouth orthroat or s it named    Mint, wintergreen or spearmint        someone who uses fruit-cooling flavours wouldsensation in your mouth or throat or were    eh &gt; Ice                             es eze&#x27; frost ie&#x27; &#x27;chill,   &#x27;cool&#x27;, &#x27;smooth&#x27; or something similar?          Fruit                        flavours, or both.&#x27;cool&#x27; or something similar?                                                 Fuit-mint or ice-ruit cominations (suh asQ2 modifid to ask about regular bran  strawberry freeze or blueberry ice)†     opposed to past 30-day use. Q1 also modified toClove or spice                   include &#x27;smooth&#x27; as an additional descriptor andChocolate                     modified for use as a template for any non-An alcoholic drink (such as wine, cognac, cigarette nicotine or tobacco product.margarita or other cocktails)          The flavour list of response options for Q1 canA non-alcoholic drink (such as coffee, sobe modified based on the available flavours forenergy drinks or other beverages)      specic products, but we encourage asking aboutCandy, desserts or other sweets       flavour categories separately.Some other flavour (specify)Q2: Yes&gt; Nomarket change</td></tr><tr><td rowspan=1 colspan=1>uit-mint or ice-fru</td></tr></table>

Recommended measures are reflective of the current market as of October 2024 and are intended to serve as templates that can be adapted to market changes.  
†Italic text indicates an additional recommended response option not in the original source item.  
PATH Study, Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health; TCORS, Tobacco Centre of Regulatory Science.

## LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS

The measures recommended here have not been examined for their reliability or validity; empirical work is needed to determine whether the measures suggested are the best available for assessing use among various populations. Some work suggests that menthol, mint and other cooling flavourants (eg, WS-23) in ENDS produce different sensory experiences, with levels of ‘coolness’ and ‘smoothness’ varying both across (eg, WS-23 ‘smoother’ than menthol) and within (eg, peppermint ‘cooler’ than spearmint) these categories.13 14 Empirical work is needed to determine whether survey respondents can accurately and reliably distinguish between menthol, mint and flavours that produce a cooling sensation when they are responding to product use survey questions such as those recommended here. In addition, although many nicotine products labelled as ‘clear’ or ‘unflavoured contain synthetic cooling agents,15 descriptors such as ‘clear’, ‘naked’, and unflavoured’ were not included in the recommended items at this time because more research is needed on these products. This is an important area for future research.

## CONCLUSIONS

A wide range of menthol, mint and other flavours that produce a cooling sensation are available today, and new flavour chemicals are emerging that circumvent restrictions on menthol products. We recommend separating these categories in survey measures, because combining flavour categories may bias prevalence estimates and affect our understanding of policy impacts in places where a specific flavour category is prohibited (eg, menthol prohibited in cigarettes and mint prohibited in ENDS). As the marketplace continues to diversify, researchers need common measures for menthol, mint and cooling-flavoured product use that can serve as a standard and be adapted as new flavours enter the market. Such measures can aid in making comparisons across studies, understanding population health effects and informing product review and standards. The recommended measures reported here are meant to aid in consistent measurement for menthol, mint and other cooling flavoured product use and are reflective of the current market. Given the rapidly evolving marketplace, we provide recommendations for how to adapt the items as new cooling flavours enter the market and encourage staying up to date with available resources to make sure that survey measures are reflective of market changes.

## X Daniel P Giovenco @dannygiovenco

Contributors JEO: writing–original draft, data curation, conceptualisation, project administration. CS: conceptualisation, writing–review and editing, supervision. KWB: data curation, writing–review and editing. ACV: data curation, writing–review and editing. DPG: data curation, writing–review and editing. AL: data curation, writing– review and editing. JBU: data curation, writing–review and editing.

Funding Research reported in this publication was supported by grant numbers R01DA054993 and U54DA036151 from the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) and FDA Center for Tobacco Products (CTP).

Disclaimer The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the NIH or the Food and Drug Administration.

Competing interests No, there are no competing interests.

Patient consent for publication Not applicable.

Provenance and peer review Not commissioned; internally peer reviewed.

Open access This is an open access article distributed in accordance with the Creative Commons Attribution Non Commercial (CC BY-NC 4.0) license, which permits others to distribute, remix, adapt, build upon this work non-commercially, and license their derivative works on different terms, provided the original work is properly cited, appropriate credit is given, any changes made indicated, and the use is non-commercial. See: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/.

## ORCID iDs

Jenny E Ozga http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2543-561X Krysten W Bold http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8012-6118 Daniel P Giovenco http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6256-9612 Andrea C Villanti http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3104-966X Jennifer B Unger http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9064-6603 Adam Leventhal http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1217-525X Cassandra Stanton http://orcid.org/0000-0001-5329-6261

## REFERENCES

1 Ali FRM, Seaman EL, Diaz MC, et al. Trends in unit sales of cooling flavoured ecigarettes, USA, 2017-2021. Tob Control 2024;33:147–53.

2 Jenkins C, Morgan J, Kelso C. Synthetic Cooling Agents in Australian-Marketed E-cigarette Refill Liquids and Disposable E-cigarettes: Trends Follow the U.S. Market. Nicotine and Tobacco Research 2024;26:380–4.

3 Jabba SV, Erythropel HC, Woodrow JG, et al. Synthetic cooling agent in oral nicotine pouch products marketed as “flavor-ban approved”. Tob Control 2023.

4 Jabba SV, Erythropel HC, Anastas PT, et al. Synthetic Cooling Agent and Other Flavor Additives in “Non-Menthol” Cigarettes Marketed in California and Massachusetts After Menthol Cigarette Bans. JAMA 2023;330:1689–91.

5 Page MK, Paul EE, Leigh NJ, et al. Still “Cool”: tobacco industry responds to statewide menthol ban with synthetic coolants. Tob Control 2023.:tc-2023-058149.

6 Kyriakos CN, Erinoso O, Driezen P, et al. Prevalence and perceptions of flavour capsule cigarettes among adults who smoke in Brazil, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia and Mexico: findings from the ITC surveys. BMJ Open 2024;14:e083080.

7 Cohen JE, Welding K, Erinoso O, et al. The Flavor Train: The Nature and Extent of Flavored Cigarettes in Low- and Middle-Income Countries. Nicotine Tob Res 2021;23:1936–41.

8 Erinoso O, Clegg Smith K, Iacobelli M, et al. Global review of tobacco product flavour policies. Tob Control 2020;30:373–9.

9 Kyriakos CN, Chung-Hall J, Craig LV, et al. Optimising a product standard for banning menthol and other flavours in tobacco products. Tob Control 2023.:tc-2023-058174.

10 NAHDAP. Westat, Population Ssessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) Study: Final Adult Interview, Wave 8 (January 2024 - December 2024), English Data Collection Instrument. Bethesda: National Insitute on Drug Abuse, 2024:8. 1–1342.

11 Leventhal A, Dai H, Barrington-Trimis J, et al. “Ice” flavoured e-cigarette use among young adults. Tob Control 2023;32:114–7.

12 Miech RA, et al. Monitoring the future: a continuing study of american youth (12th-grade survey). Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research [distributor]; 2023.

13 Tackett AP, Han DH, Peraza N, et al. Effects of “Ice” flavoured e-cigarettes with synthetic cooling agent WS-23 or menthol on user-reported appeal and sensory attributes. Tob Control 2023.

14 Anderson MK, Whitted L, Mason TB, et al. Characterizing different-flavored e-cigarette solutions from user-reported sensory attributes and appeal. Exp Clin Psychopharmacol 2023;31:46–56.

15 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. National e-cigarette unit sales by flavor. monitoring tobacco product use. Available: https://tobaccomonitoring.org/national [Accessed 24 Oct 2024].