# Safety of Semaglutide After Dialysis Initiation: An Individual-Level Pooled Analysis

Klara R. Klein, Anna Menacher, John B. Buse, Johannes F.E. Mann, Katherine R. Tuttle, Kajsa Kvist, Margit R. Andersen, Manuel Mayrdorfer, and Ildiko Lingvay

Diabetes Care 2026;49(6):999–1005 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-0112

Treatment With Semaglutide Was Not Associated With a Higher Proportion of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), including Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events (MACEs) and All-Cause Mortality, Among Those Initiating Dialysis

Pooled analysis of SUSTAIN-6, SELECT, FLOW, and SOUL

<!-- image-->

Chronic dialysis initiation Adjudication of dialysis event

Analysis of systematically collected adverse events after dialysis initiation

At least 4 weeks of intermittent dialysis treatment

<!-- image-->  
Serious adverse events and outcomes of interest occurring after dialysis initiation

<!-- image-->  
Conclusion: In people with type 2 diabetes continuation of semaglutide after dialysis initiation appears safe.

## ARTICLE HIGHLIGHTS

## • Why did we undertake this study?

Semaglutide provides cardiovascular and mortality benefit in certain populations at high risk of cardiovascular events. Whether semaglutide is safe in people receiving dialysis, a population at very high risk for cardiovascular events and death, is not known.

## • What is the specific question we wanted to answer?

What is the safety of semaglutide after dialysis initiation among people initiating dialysis in SUSTAIN-6 (Trial to Evaluate Cardiovascular and Other Long-term Outcomes With Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes), SELECT (Semaglutide Effects on Cardiovascular Outcomes in People with Overweight or Obesity), FLOW (Evaluate Renal Function With Semaglutide Once Weekly), and SOUL (Semaglutide Cardiovascular Outcomes).

## • What did we find?

We found no difference in serious adverse events, and rates of cardiovascular events and death were lower in people randomized to semaglutide compared with placebo.

## • What are the implications of our findings?

Our analysis indicates that continuation of semaglutide in people initiating dialysis is safe and potentially beneficial, but further evidence is necessary.

# Safety of Semaglutide After Dialysis Initiation: An Individual-Level Pooled Analysis

Diabetes Care 2026;49:999–1005 | https://doi.org/10.2337/dc26-0112

<!-- image-->

Klara R. Klein,1 Anna Menacher,2   
John B. Buse,1 Johannes F.E. Mann,3,4   
Katherine R. Tuttle,5 Kajsa Kvist,2   
Margit R. Andersen,2 Manuel Mayrdorfer,2   
and Ildiko Lingvay6

## OBJECTIVE

People receiving dialysis are at high risk of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. Semaglutide reduces major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and those without T2D with obesity and high cardiovascular risk. Data to establish safety and efficacy in dialysis-dependent kidney failure are scarce. We aimed to assess the safety of semaglutide in people who initiate dialysis.

## RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

In this post hoc analysis of four randomized, placebo-controlled trials (Trial to Evaluate Cardiovascular and Other Long-term Outcomes With Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes [SUSTAIN-6], Semaglutide Effects on Cardiovascular Outcomes in People with Overweight or Obesity [SELECT], Evaluate Renal Function With Semaglutide Once Weekly [FLOW], and Semaglutide Cardiovascular Outcomes [SOUL]), we evaluated systematically collected adverse events (AEs) from participants who initiated dialysis during study follow-up. We compared the proportion and event rates of systematically collected serious AEs (SAEs), including adjudicated MACE, and AEs leading to permanent treatment discontinuation in participants originally randomized to semaglutide or placebo who remained on treatment after dialysis initiation.

## RESULTS

Among 34,064 participants randomized across the trials, 307 initiated dialysis, of whom 165 participants randomized to semaglutide (n = 71) or placebo (n = 94) remained on treatment. After dialysis initiation, SAEs were reported in 32 of 71 (45%) and 54 of 94 (57%) participants, and the proportion of participants who permanently discontinued trial medication was 8.5% and 10.6% in the semaglutide and placebo groups, respectively. The MACE event rates were 9.7 and 16.1 events per 100 person-years, and all-cause mortality event rates were 13.8 and 18.1 events per 100 person-years, in the semaglutide and placebo groups, respectively.

## CONCLUSIONS

Although more evidence is needed, continuation of semaglutide after dialysis initiation appears safe and warrants efficacy testing regarding reduction in MACE and death.

Currently, over 3.5 million people worldwide receive maintenance dialysis, with diabetes accounting for nearly half of all new cases of kidney failure (1,2). Driven largely by the global diabetes epidemic, the prevalence of kidney failure continues

© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this work for educational, noncommercial purposes if properly cited and unaltered. This publication and its contents may not be reproduced, distributed, or used for text or data mining, machine learning, or other similar technologies without prior written permission. More information is available at https://diabetesjournals.org/journals/pages/license.

to rise, with over 5.4 million individuals projected to require kidney replacement therapy by 2030, most of whom will be treated with dialysis (3). Individuals receiving dialysis have a 5-year survival rate of less than 50%, primarily due to cardiovascular complications (4). To date, no pharmacotherapy has demonstrated a clear cardiovascular benefit in the dialysis population (5).

Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RA) reduce major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in people living with type 2 diabetes, those without type 2 diabetes with BMI ≥27 kg/m2 and high cardiovascular risk, and those with high kidney risk who are not treated with dialysis (6–10). As such, both kidney and diabetes guideline bodies recommend GLP-1 RA for cardiovascular and kidney protection in people with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease (CKD) (11–13). Early evidence also suggests that GLP-1 RA provide clinically meaningful kidney benefit in people without type 2 diabetes with BMI ≥27 kg/m2 and CKD (14). Together, these data suggest an important role for GLP-1 RA for cardiovascular and kidney protection in people living with CKD not receiving dialysis regardless of diabetes status.

However, whether these benefits extend to people living with dialysisdependent kidney failure is not known. Data to establish the safety and efficacy of GLP-1 RA in people living with dialysisdependent kidney failure are scarce, and prescription of GLP-1 RA to people treated with dialysis remains limited (15). The lack of population-specific evidence has limited most major guideline bodies from strongly recommending GLP-1 RA use among people receiving dialysis (16,17). Instead, they call for more evidence to establish cardiovascular efficacy and mortality benefit in the dialysis population. Unfortunately, enrollment challenges have hindered efforts to conduct large-scale randomized controlled trials of GLP-1 RA in people treated with dialysis (18,19). Using data from four clinical trials, we therefore evaluated the safety of semaglutide in participants who initiated dialysis during study follow-up and explored the potential for efficacy with respect to cardiovascular outcomes and all-cause mortality.

## RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS

We included all cardiovascular and kidney outcome trials examining semaglutide for which dialysis initiation was an adjudicated event (Trial to Evaluate Cardiovascular and Other Long-term Outcomes With Semaglutide in Subjects With Type 2 Diabetes [SUSTAIN-6], Semaglutide Effects on Cardiovascular Outcomes in People with Overweight or Obesity [SELECT], Evaluate Renal Function With Semaglutide Once Weekly [FLOW], and Semaglutide Cardiovascular Outcomes [SOUL]). Participants from Peptide Innovation for Early Diabetes Treatment [PIONEER-6], a cardiovascular outcome trial of oral semaglutide, were excluded because dialysis events were not adjudicated (20). The trial designs for SUSTAIN-6, SELECT, FLOW, and SOUL have been previously published (6,7,10,21). Briefly, these studies were randomized, double-blind, placebocontrolled clinical trials assessing the impact of semaglutide on cardiovascular and kidney outcomes. A type 2 diabetes diagnosis was required for all studies except for SELECT, and each trial used subcutaneous semaglutide (maximum dose: SUSTAIN-6 and FLOW = 1 mg/week, SELECT = 2.4 mg/week semaglutide) except SOUL, which evaluated oral semaglutide (maximum dose: 14 mg/day). The primary outcomes in SUSTAIN-6, SELECT, and SOUL were MACE (a composite of death from cardiovascular causes, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke). In FLOW, the primary outcome was major kidney disease events (a composite of kidney failure, ≥50% reduction in the estimated glomerular filtration rate from baseline, or death from kidneyrelated or cardiovascular causes).

In this individual-level pooled exploratory analysis, we evaluated systematically collected adverse events (AEs), serious AEs (SAEs), AEs that led to permanent treatment discontinuation, kidney transplantation, MACE, and all-cause mortality after participants initiated chronic dialysis, until the end of each study. A schematic of the study design, describing the postrandomized nature of the evaluated cohort, is provided in Supplementary Fig. 1, and a flowchart of the study and participant inclusion is provided in Fig. 1. Chronic dialysis was defined as any dialysis modality (peritoneal or hemodialysis) for at least 4 weeks. Four weeks of follow-up was not required if a competing event (e.g., death) occurred and there was no reason to believe that there was a reversible cause for dialysis initiation. Exact definitions from each trial protocol are provided in Supplementary Material, Section VII. MACE, all-cause mortality, and dialysis events were adjudicated by a blinded external committee. We analyzed individuals who initiated chronic dialysis (in-trial analysis), a subpopulation of participants who were on randomized treatment at and following dialysis initiation (on-treatment analysis and primary analysis), and a subpopulation of participants who discontinued treatment at or before dialysis initiation (discontinuedtreatment analysis).

Because of breaking baseline randomization, our analysis is restricted to an exploratory descriptive analysis of baseline characteristics, as well as proportion and event rates of AEs, and does not entertain a causal analysis by reweighting the population to reflect balance between groups at the new baseline of dialysis initiation, because of low sample size and methodological constraints. Instead, we provide 95% CIs of the proportions and event rates in the Supplementary Material to highlight the variation from the mean for both descriptive statistics. We used event rates to account for the time spent treated with dialysis in each respective group. Results of the in-trial analysis are provided in Supplementary Tables 1–4. A sensitivity analysis that shifts follow-up start from 1 day to 7 days after dialysis initiation is provided in Supplementary Material, Section II to elucidate any systematic biases of early AEs that should be attributed to the initiation of dialysis itself.

## Data and Resource Availability

All data that support the findings are included within the manuscript. Data will be shared with bona fide researchers who submit a research proposal approved by the independent review board. Individual patient data will be shared in data sets in a deidentified and anonymized format. Data will be made available after research completion and approval of the product and product use in the European Union and the U.S. Information about data access request proposals can be found at www .novonordisk-trials.com.

<!-- image-->  
Figure 1—Participant flow diagram of the pooled analysis of SUSTAIN-6, SELECT, FLOW, and SOUL.

## RESULTS

Among 34,064 participants randomized across four trials, 307 initiated dialysis (0.90%) (Fig. 1 and Supplementary Tables 1 and 2), of whom 165 were on treatment (semaglutide: n = 71; placebo: n = 94) at the time of dialysis initiation. The in-trial analysis consists of 23 participants from SUSTAIN-6, 10 participants from SELECT, 187 participants from FLOW, and 87 participants from SOUL (Supplementary Table 2). The on-treatment analysis set consists of 10 participants from SUSTAIN-6, 3 participants from SELECT, 105 participants from FLOW, and 47 participants from SOUL. The characteristics of the ontreatment cohort at the time of dialysis initiation are presented in Table 1. Concomitant medications used at the time of dialysis initiation are provided in Supplementary Table 5. At dialysis initiation, those originally randomized to semaglutide had a lower weight and insulin use. In the semaglutide group (n = 71), 76% were treated with the maximum dose of semaglutide allowed in each respective trial (Supplementary Table 6). Prior to dialysis initiation, 74.6% in the semaglutide group and 76.6% in the placebo group experienced at least one SAE. The distribution of SAEs occurring before dialysis initiation is provided in

Supplementary Fig. 2. Mean follow-up time after dialysis initiation was 1.29 and 1.34 years in the semaglutide and placebo groups, respectively.

The counterpart to the on-treatment cohort, consisting of participants that discontinued treatment prior to dialysis initiation, consisted of 70 participants originally randomized to semaglutide and 72 participants originally randomized to placebo. The discontinued-treatment cohort tended to be older at dialysis start than the on-treatment cohort, with 66.9% vs. 48.5%, respectively, being >65 years of age. Likewise, 90.8% of participants in the discontinuedtreatment cohort experienced at least one SAE prior to dialysis initiation, whereas only 75.6% of participants in the on-treatment cohort experienced at least one SAE prior to dialysis initiation (Supplementary Tables 7–9 and Table 1). The distribution of time between treatment discontinuation and dialysis initiation in the discontinued-treatment cohort is provided in Supplementary Fig. 3.

After dialysis initiation, 32 (45%) and 54 (57%) participants in the semaglutide and placebo groups, respectively, reported SAEs (Table 2). The SAE event rate was higher in the semaglutide group, secondary to a single participant who reported 43 SAEs (including six gastrointestinal and

10 infectious events) yet remained on treatment (Fig. 2). This participant initiated chronic dialysis after 2.66 years of trial participation and experienced four SAEs prior to dialysis initiation. After the adjudicated dialysis initiation event, this participant remained on treatment for an additional 1.89 years until the conclusion of the study. When this outlier data point was excluded, SAE event rates were numerically lower in the semaglutide group in contrast to the placebo group (Table 2). Supplementary Table 10 shows the magnitude of the difference in proportions for any reported SAE between the groups. For those originally randomized to semaglutide, the proportion experiencing any SAE is 45.1% (95% CI 33.2–57.3) compared with 57.4% (95% CI 46.8–67.6) for placebo.

The proportion of participants experiencing serious gastrointestinal disorders was 2.8% in the semaglutide group and 7.4% in the placebo group, and the event rates were similar (9.7 and 9.1 events per 100 person-years for semaglutide and placebo, respectively). When the outlier data point was excluded, serious gastrointestinal disorder event rates were lower in the semaglutide group than in the placebo group (1.4 vs. 9.1 events per 100 person-years, respectively).

Table 1—Characteristics of the on-treatment cohort at the time of dialysis initiation by randomization group (semaglutide versus placebo)
<table><tr><td></td><td>Semaglutide</td><td>Placebo</td><td>Total</td></tr><tr><td>n</td><td>71</td><td>94</td><td>165</td></tr><tr><td>Duration of follow-up (years), mean (SD)*</td><td>1.29 (0.912)</td><td>1.34 (0.809)</td><td>1.31 (0.852)</td></tr><tr><td>Sex, n (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Male</td><td>49 (69.0)</td><td>70 (74.5)</td><td>119 (72.1)</td></tr><tr><td>Female</td><td>22 (31.0)</td><td>24 (25.5)</td><td>46 (27.9)</td></tr><tr><td>Age (years), mean (SD)</td><td>64.4 (10.0)</td><td>65.1 (8.53)</td><td>64.8 (9.19)</td></tr><tr><td>Age-group (years), n (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>&lt;45</td><td>3 (4.2)</td><td>1 (1.1)</td><td>4 (2.4)</td></tr><tr><td>45 to &lt;55</td><td>11 (5.5)</td><td>10 (10.6)</td><td>21 (12.7)</td></tr><tr><td>55 to &lt;65</td><td>20 (28.2)</td><td>40 (42.6)</td><td>60 (36.4)</td></tr><tr><td>65 to &lt;75 75 to &lt;85</td><td>30 (42.3)</td><td>32 (34.0)</td><td>62 (37.6)</td></tr><tr><td>≥85</td><td>7 (9.9)</td><td>11 (11.7)</td><td>18 (10.9)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>0 (0)</td><td>0 (0)</td><td>0 (0)</td></tr><tr><td>Race, n (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Asian</td><td>19 (26.8)</td><td>25 (26.6)</td><td>44 (26.7)</td></tr><tr><td>Black or African American</td><td>4 (5.6)</td><td>7 (7.4)</td><td>11 (6.7)</td></tr><tr><td>White</td><td>44 (62.0)</td><td>54 (57.4)</td><td>98 (59.4)</td></tr><tr><td>Not reported</td><td>0 (0)</td><td>3 (3.2)</td><td>3 (1.8)</td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td>4 (5.6)</td><td>5 (5.3)</td><td>9 (5.5)</td></tr><tr><td>Ethnicity, n (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Hispanic/Latino</td><td>18 (25.4)</td><td>23 (24.5)</td><td>41 (24.8)</td></tr><tr><td>Not Hispanic/Latino</td><td>53 (74.6)</td><td>67 (71.3)</td><td>120 (72.7)</td></tr><tr><td>Not reported</td><td>0 (0)</td><td>4 (4.3)</td><td>4 (2.4)</td></tr><tr><td>Region, n (%)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>North America</td><td>25 (35.2)</td><td>29 (30.9)</td><td>54 (32.7)</td></tr><tr><td>South America</td><td>5 (7.0)</td><td>8 (8.5)</td><td>13 (7.9)</td></tr><tr><td>Europe</td><td>9 (12.7)</td><td>21 (22.3)</td><td>30 (18.2)</td></tr><tr><td>Africa</td><td>1 (1.4)</td><td>0 (0)</td><td>1 (0.6)</td></tr><tr><td>Asia Other</td><td>20 (28.2)</td><td>24 (25.5)</td><td>44 (26.7)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>11 (15.5)</td><td>12 (12.8)</td><td>23 (13.9)</td></tr><tr><td>Diabetes, n (%)+ CKD, n (%)</td><td>70 (98.6)</td><td>92 (97.9)</td><td>162 (98.2)</td></tr><tr><td>Coronary heart disease, n (%)</td><td>71 (100)</td><td>92 (97.9)</td><td>163 (98.8)</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>23 (32.4)</td><td>30 (31.9)</td><td>53 (32.1)</td></tr><tr><td>Cerebrovascular disease, n (%)</td><td>14 (19.7)</td><td>20 (21.3)</td><td>34 (20.6)</td></tr><tr><td>Heart failure, n (%)</td><td>20 (28.2)</td><td>35 (37.2)</td><td>55 (33.3)</td></tr><tr><td>Weight (kg), mean (SD)</td><td>84.5 (22.9)</td><td>90.3 (22.7)</td><td>87.9 (22.9)</td></tr><tr><td>HbA1c (%), mean (SD)</td><td>6.81 (1.30)</td><td>7.12 (1.36)</td><td>6.99 (1.34)</td></tr><tr><td>Insulin use, n (%)</td><td>41 (57.7)</td><td>70 (74.5)</td><td>111 (67.3)</td></tr><tr><td>SAEs prior to dialysis initiation, n (%)</td><td>53 (74.6)</td><td>72 (76.6)</td><td>125 (75.6)</td></tr></table>

\*The duration of follow-up for the dialysis cohort is measured as the difference between the end of study and the dialysis initiation. †A diagnosis of type 2 diabetes was required for inclusion in SUSTAIN-6, FLOW, and SOUL. A diagnosis of diabetes was exclusionary in SELECT.

The proportion of participants reporting AEs that led to permanent discontinuation of investigational product was similar between groups (semaglutide: 8.5%; placebo: 10.6%) (Table 2). No participants randomized to semaglutide received a kidney transplant, while two randomized to placebo received a kidney transplant. Severe hypoglycemic episode event rates were similar between randomized treatment groups.

The proportion of participants experiencing MACE was lower in the semaglutide group than in the placebo group (Table 2) (9.9% vs. 17%, respectively). The MACE event rate was 9.7 events per 100 personyears with semaglutide and 16.1 events per 100 person-years for placebo. The all-cause mortality rate was also lower in the semaglutide group than the placebo group (13.8 and 18.1 events per 100 personyears, respectively). The 95% CI for proportion of participants experiencing MACE and all-cause mortality for semaglutide is 9.9% (95% CI 4.1–19.3) and 14.1% (95% CI 7.0–24.4), respectively, compared with 17% (95% CI 10.1– 26.2) and 19.1% (95% CI 11.8–28.6), respectively, for placebo (Supplementary Table 10).

## CONCLUSIONS

In this post hoc, individual-level pooled analysis of four international, randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials with systematically collected outcomes and AEs, semaglutide was not associated with a higher proportion of SAEs in participants initiating dialysis. The proportion and event rates of adjudicated MACE and all-cause mortality events were numerically lower among those originally randomized to semaglutide. Additionally, there was no evidence of an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal or hypoglycemic events, nor a higher permanent treatment discontinuation rate with semaglutide when compared with placebo after initiation of dialysis. As people treated with dialysis frequently experience gastrointestinal symptoms and high risk of hypoglycemia (22–24), these data provide reassurance that continued use of semaglutide does not exacerbate these concerns.

Prospective studies of GLP-1 RA in the dialysis population are limited (16). Only one randomized, placebo-controlled trial has been conducted in the outpatient setting (25,26). In this study, 24 participants with type 2 diabetes and dialysis-dependent kidney failure and 23 participants with type 2 diabetes and normal kidney function were randomized to liraglutide or placebo to compare the plasma concentrations of liraglutide in people treated with dialysis to those with normal kidney function. Secondarily, the study assessed the preliminary safety and efficacy of liraglutide in people treated with dialysis compared with those with normal glomerular filtration rate. Among those treated with dialysis, 10 of 14 participants randomized to liraglutide completed the 12-week study compared with all participants randomized to placebo. Plasma liraglutide concentrations were higher in people treated with dialysis, and nausea and vomiting occurred more frequently in people treated with dialysis randomized to liraglutide than the other three arms.

Table 2—Serious adverse events and adverse events of interest occurring after initiation of dialysis in the on-treatment cohort
<table><tr><td></td><td colspan="4">Semaglutide</td><td colspan="4">Placebo</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>Participants</td><td>Proportion (%)</td><td>No. of events</td><td>Event  $\mathsf { r a t e } ^ { 1 , 2 }$ </td><td>Participants</td><td>Proportion (%)</td><td>No. of events</td><td>Event  $\mathsf { r a t e } ^ { 1 , 2 }$ </td></tr><tr><td>On-treatment cohort</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Any SAE</td><td>32</td><td>45.1</td><td>117</td><td>161.6</td><td>54</td><td>57.4</td><td>110</td><td>110.8</td></tr><tr><td>Serious infections and infestations</td><td>11</td><td>15.5</td><td>24</td><td>33.1</td><td>20</td><td>21.3</td><td>28</td><td>28.2</td></tr><tr><td>Serious gastrointestinal disorders</td><td>2</td><td>2.8</td><td>7</td><td>9.7</td><td>7</td><td>7.4</td><td>9</td><td>9.1</td></tr><tr><td>All-cause mortality</td><td>10</td><td>14.1</td><td>10</td><td>13.8</td><td>18</td><td>19.1</td><td>18</td><td>18.1</td></tr><tr><td>MACE³</td><td>7</td><td>9.9</td><td>7</td><td>9.7</td><td>16</td><td>17</td><td>16</td><td>16.1</td></tr><tr><td>AEs leading to permanent IP</td><td>6</td><td>8.5</td><td>6</td><td>8.3</td><td>10</td><td>10.6</td><td>10</td><td>10.1</td></tr><tr><td>discontinuation Severe hypoglycemic episodes</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Kidney transplant</td><td>1 0</td><td>1.4 0.0</td><td>1 0</td><td>1.4 0.0</td><td>2 2</td><td>2.1 2.1</td><td>2 2</td><td>2.0 2.0</td></tr><tr><td>On-treatment cohort excluding</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>the outlier participant4</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Any SAE</td><td>31</td><td>44.3</td><td>74</td><td>105.1</td><td>54</td><td>57.4</td><td>110</td><td>110.8</td></tr><tr><td>Serious infections and infestations</td><td>10</td><td>14.3</td><td>14</td><td>19.9</td><td>20</td><td>21.3</td><td>28</td><td>28.2</td></tr><tr><td>Serious gastrointestinal disorders</td><td>1</td><td>1.4</td><td>1</td><td>1.4</td><td>7</td><td>7.4</td><td>9</td><td>9.1</td></tr><tr><td>All-cause mortality</td><td>10</td><td>14.3</td><td>10</td><td>14.2</td><td>18</td><td>19.1</td><td>18</td><td>18.1</td></tr><tr><td>MACE³3</td><td>7</td><td>10.0</td><td>7</td><td>9.9</td><td>16</td><td>17.0</td><td>16</td><td>16.1</td></tr><tr><td>AEs leading to permanent IP discontinuation</td><td>6</td><td>8.6</td><td>6</td><td>8.5</td><td>10</td><td>10.6</td><td>10</td><td>10.1</td></tr><tr><td>Severe hypoglycemic episodes</td><td>0</td><td>0.0</td><td>0</td><td>0.0</td><td>2</td><td>2.1</td><td>2</td><td>2.0</td></tr><tr><td>Kidney transplant</td><td>0</td><td>0.0</td><td>0</td><td>0.0</td><td>2</td><td>2.1</td><td>2</td><td>2.0</td></tr></table>

For on-treatment cohort, number of participants on semaglutide was 71, and number on placebo was 94; for on-treatment cohort excluding the outlier participant, there was one less participant on semaglutide. Participants: number in on-treatment cohort experiencing at least one event after dialysis initiation; Proportion (%): percentage in on-treatment cohort experiencing at least one event after dialysis initiation; No. of events: total number of events in on-treatment cohort after dialysis initiation. IP, investigational product. 1 Event rate for on-treatment analysis: all collected adverse events occurring after initiation of dialysis and while being on treatment divided over person-years calculated for all participants in each trial group until discontinuation of trial medication, death, loss-to-follow up, withdrawal, or end of treatment, whichever came first. On-treatment periods are defined as observed on-treatment period with intended study product plus a 35-day washout period. 2 Event rate [(no. of events divided by sum of person-years) × 100]: event rates are defined per 100 person-years. The sum of personyears was 72.4 or 70.4 years for the on-treatment analysis for the semaglutide (with or without outlier participant) and 99.3 years for the placebo group. 3 MACE is defined as nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, cardiovascular death, or undetermined death. 4 The outlier participant reported 43 serious adverse events while remaining on medication.

Notably, rates of nausea and vomiting in participants treated with dialysis randomized to placebo were similar to participants with normal kidney function randomized to liraglutide, highlighting the high burden of gastrointestinal symptoms at baseline in people treated with dialysis (26).

Mild hypoglycemia measured by continuous glucose monitoring increased in participants receiving dialysis who were randomized to liraglutide compared with placebo (25). Eight of 12 participants with continuous glucose monitoring data were treated with insulin, and three were treated with oral glucose-lowering medications. Glucose-lowering medication reduction was not protocolized at randomization. As such, proactive management of glucose-lowering therapies with addition of GLP-1 RA may be necessary to reduce hypoglycemia risk.

Nonrandomized studies have also raised concerns regarding fat and skeletal muscle loss with GLP-1 RA (27), as GLP-1 RA– induced weight loss may be detrimental to people with dialysis-dependent kidney failure (16). Observational data suggest lighter body weight associates with worse survival in the dialysis population (28). As a result, concerns related to GLP-1 RA–induced weight loss, especially with more potent agents, may contribute to hesitancy for broad use of GLP-1 RA in the dialysis population. Indeed, in the U.S. dialysis population, few people who may benefit are prescribed GLP-1 RA (15,16). In our pooled analysis, people who were originally randomized to semaglutide had, on average, a lower weight than people in the placebo group at dialysis initiation; nevertheless, people who initiated dialysis in the semaglutide group did not experience more SAEs, including gastrointestinal events, MACE, all-cause mortality, or hypoglycemia, than people who initiated dialysis in the placebo group, who had, on average, a higher weight at dialysis initiation.

Observational studies indicating potential for benefit are also emerging. One such study suggested that GLP-1 RA use conferred MACE and all-cause mortality risk reduction in people living with type 2 diabetes at dialysis initiation when compared with basal insulin (29). Similarly, a more recent study demonstrated that GLP-1 RA use in people receiving dialysis associated with a decreased risk of mortality compared with GLP1-RA nonusers (30). However, both studies need to be interpreted within the context of their constructed cohort and potential biases (e.g., immortal time bias, reverse causation, or competing risks). Regardless of these limitations, consistent with the present results, these observational data suggest potential for MACE and mortality benefit with GLP-1 RA use in the dialysis population, necessitating future study of their potential benefit.

<!-- image-->  
Figure 2—Distribution of serious adverse events occurring after dialysis initiation in the on-treatment cohort by treatment group.

Several important study limitations are noteworthy in our work as well. Few participants initiated dialysis, and they were randomized at study start rather than at dialysis initiation, thus limiting our evaluation to an exploratory analysis with descriptive assessments. The follow-up time for each participant in the pooled analysis varied based on trial length and time of dialysis initiation, although the follow-up duration after dialysis initiation was comparable between randomized groups and exceeds, on average, 1 year. Additionally, differences in AE collection across the trials prevented comparison of nonserious AEs; however, that fewer permanent treatment discontinuations occurred in those treated with semaglutide is reassuring regarding tolerance.

It is worth commenting on the selection bias in this analysis, which has been induced by creating a cohort of people initiating dialysis after randomization. Because semaglutide reduces risks of MACE, all-cause mortality, and loss of kidney function and kidney failure in people with CKD (10), semaglutide use prior to dialysis may have introduced unidentifiable differences between the cohorts at dialysis initiation. Given that, in semaglutide outcomes trials, a higher mortality rate was observed in people randomized to placebo, differential survivor bias has been introduced by treatment assignment, thus disrupting the equipoise of risks provided by randomization into the trials. While our analyses suggest a potential for benefit, a study that randomizes people treated with dialysis to semaglutide or placebo is required to fully elucidate the risks and benefits. Unfortunately, thus far, randomized studies of GLP-1 RA in dialysis have proven challenging (18,19). As such, these data are likely to be the most robust prospective evidence available for some time.

The present observations represent the largest prospective report of people receiving dialysis treated with GLP-1 RA and support the safety of semaglutide continuation in people initiating dialysis. Further, the available data highlight potential for benefits on MACE and all-cause mortality. In the absence of randomized trials in dialysis-dependent kidney failure, these new insights into the safety of GLP-1 RA use highlight the need to test GLP-1 RA as potential therapies to improve cardiovascular and survival outcomes in this high-risk population and should encourage continuation of GLP-1 RA after dialysis initiation.

U54DK118612, P30DK124723, R33HL142680, R44DK096803, R01DK119913, R01DK112939, R01DK125831, and R01DK127365), Breakthrough T1D (formerly the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation), and Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (D1-2018C1-10853). K.R.T. is supported by National Institutes of Health research grants R01MD014712, U2CDK114886, UL1TR002319, U54DK083912, U01DK100846, OT2HL161847, UM1AI109568, and OT2OD032581, as well as Centers for Disease Control and Prevention project numbers 75D301-21-P-12254 and 75D301- 23-C-18264, has received investigator-initiated grant support from Doris Duke Foundation and Breakthrough T1D. This study was supported by Novo Nordisk.

Duality of Interest. K.R.K. has received advisory/ consulting fees and/or other support from Antag Therapeutics, Metsera, Novo Nordisk, and Roche Pharmaceuticals. Additionally, K.R.K. has received research-related contracts (paid to the institution) from Bayer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Carmot, Diasome, Eli Lilly, Gentibio, Novo Nordisk, Rhythm Pharmaceuticals, Roche Pharmaceuticals, and vTv Therapeutics. J.B.B. has received salary support from clinical trial contracts to his employer by Corcept Therapeutics, Dexcom, GentiBio, Novo Nordisk, and Sparrow Pharmaceuticals; has received salary support from consulting contracts to his employer by Novo Nordisk; is a consultant with personal compensation from Aardvark Therapeutics, Altimmune, Alveus Therapeutics, Amgen, Antag Therapeutics, Aqua Medical, AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Corcept Therapeutics, Dexcom, Eli Lilly, embecta, General Medicines Inc, GentiBio, Kayothera, Metsera, MiniMed, Recordati, Sparrow Pharmaceuticals, Vertex Pharmaceuticals, vTv Therapeutics, and Zealand Pharma; and has stock/options in Aardvark Therapeutics, Glyscend, Mellitus Health, Metsera, Pendulum Therapeutics, Praetego, and Stability Health. J.F.E.M. reports grants from Novo Nordisk; honoraria from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Cytel, ICON plc, IQVIA, Hexal, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, UpToDate, and WCG; and a leadership role in the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) group. K.R.T. has received investigatorinitiated grant support from Travere Therapeutics Inc., Bayer, and Benaroya Research Institute. She reports consultancy fees from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, Bayer, ProKidney, and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, as well as speaker fees from Novo Nordisk, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, and AstraZeneca. Additionally, she reports being chair of data safety monitoring boards for the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease, and George Clinical Institute, and a member of the data safety monitoring board for AstraZeneca. She reports leadership roles as chair for the Diabetic Kidney Disease Collaborative and chair for Kidney Week 2025 Program Committee, both for the American Society of Nephrology. A.M., K.K., M.R.A., and M.M. are employees of Novo Nordisk. K.K. and M.M. are also shareholders of Novo Nordisk. I.L. has received research funding (paid to the institution) from Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, Boehringer Ingelheim, and Roche; research-related consulting fees (paid to the institution) from Novo Nordisk; and advisory/consulting fees and/or other support from Abbvie, Altimmune, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Biomea Fusion, Boehringer Ingelheim, Carmot Therapeutics, Cytoki Pharma, Eli Lilly, Intercept, Janssen/J&J, Mediflix, Merck, Metsera, Novo Nordisk, PharmaVentures, Pfizer, Regeneron, Sanofi, Shionogi, Structure Therapeutics, TARGET RWE, TERNS Pharmaceuticals, The Comm Group, Verdiva Bio, WebMD, and Zealand Pharma. No other potential conflicts of interest relevant to this article were reported.

Author Contributions. K.R.K., A.M., and I.L. conceptualized the study design. A.M. provided data quality assurance and design and analysis expertise and conducted the analyses. K.R.K. and A.M. drafted the manuscript. All authors contributed to manuscript review and editing and clinical subject matter expertise. K.K. and I.L. contributed to oversight and communications. A.M. is the guarantor of this work and, as such, had full access to all of the data in the study and takes responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis.

Prior Presentation. These data were presented as an oral abstract at the 61st European Association for the Study of Diabetes, Vienna, Austria, 15–19 September 2025.

Handling Editors. The journal editor responsible for overseeing the review of the manuscript was Elizabeth R. Seaquist.

## References

1. McCullough KP, Morgenstern H, Saran R, Herman WH, Robinson BM. Projecting ESRD incidence and prevalence in the United States through 2030. J Am Soc Nephrol 2019;30:127–135 2. Flythe JE, Watnick S. Dialysis for chronic kidney failure: a review. JAMA 2024;332:1559–1573 3. Liyanage T, Ninomiya T, Jha V, et al. Worldwide access to treatment for end-stage

kidney disease: a systematic review. Lancet 2015;385:1975–1982

4. United States Renal Data System. USRDS Annual Data Report: Epidemiology of Kidney Disease in the United States. Bethesda, MD, National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, 2023

5. Wanner C, Amann K, Shoji T. The heart and vascular system in dialysis. Lancet 2016;388:276–284 6. Marso SP, Bain SC, Consoli A, et al.; Sustain Investigators. Semaglutide and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2016;375:1834–1844

7. Lincoff AM, Brown-Frandsen K, Colhoun HM, et al.; Select Trial Investigators. Semaglutide and cardiovascular outcomes in obesity without diabetes. N Engl J Med 2023;389:2221–2232

8. Nicholls SJ, Pavo I, Bhatt DL, et al.; SURPASS-CVOT Investigators. Cardiovascular outcomes with tirzepatide versus dulaglutide in type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2025;393:2409–2420

9. Sattar N, Lee MMY, Kristensen SL, et al. Cardiovascular, mortality, and kidney outcomes with GLP-1 receptor agonists in patients with type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and metaanalysis of randomised trials. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 2021;9:653–662

10. Perkovic V, Tuttle KR, Rossing P, et al.; Flow Trial Committee Investigators. Effects of semaglutide on chronic kidney disease in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2024;391:109–121

11. American Diabetes A. 9. Pharmacologic approaches to glycemic treatment: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes—2021. Diabetes Care 2021;44(Suppl. 1):S111–S124

12. Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) Diabetes Work Group. KDIGO 2022 clinical practice guideline for diabetes management in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Kidney Int 2022; 102:S1–S127

13. Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) Diabetes Work Group. KDIGO 2024 Clinical Practice Guideline for the Evaluation and Management of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). Kidney Int 2024;105:S117–S314

14. Apperloo EM, Gorriz JL, Soler MJ, et al. Semaglutide in patients with overweight or obesity and chronic kidney disease without diabetes: a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial. Nat Med 2025;31:278–285

15. Klein KR, Pate V, Assimon MM, Stürmer T, Buse JB, Flythe JE. Antihyperglycemic medication use among U.S. adults with hemodialysis-dependent kidney disease and comorbid diabetes. Diabetes Care 2022;45:126–128

16. Klein KR, Lingvay I, Tuttle KR, Flythe JE. Glycemic management and individualized diabetes care in dialysis-dependent kidney failure. Diabetes Care 2025;48:164–176

17. Davies MJ, Aroda VR, Collins BS, et al. Management of hyperglycaemia in type 2 diabetes, 2022. A consensus report by the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD). Diabetologia 2022;65:1925–1966

18. Geisinger Clinic. A randomized trial examining the effect of subcutaneous semaglutide on kidney transplant candidacy for patients with stage 4-5 CKD or dialysis-dependent ESKD. In: ClinicalTrials. gov. Bethesda, MD, National Library of Medicine, 2021. NLM Identifier: NCT04741074. Accessed 9 January 2026. Available from https://clinicaltrials. gov/show/NCT04741074

19. University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Semaglutide for dialysis-treated patients - a glucose time in range study - DIALYSIS-TIR Study. In: ClinicalTrials.gov. Bethesda, MD, National Library of Medicine, 2023. NLM Identifier: NCT06042153. Accessed 9 January 2026. Available from https:// clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT06042153

20. Husain M, Birkenfeld AL, Donsmark M, et al.; Pioneer 6 Investigators. Oral semaglutide and cardiovascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2019;381:841–851

21. McGuire DK, Marx N, Mulvagh SL, et al.; SOUL Study Group. Oral semaglutide and cardiovascular outcomes in high-risk type 2 diabetes. N Engl J Med 2025;392:2001–2012

22. Kalantar-Zadeh K, Lockwood MB, Rhee CM, et al. Patient-centred approaches for the management of unpleasant symptoms in kidney disease. Nat Rev Nephrol 2022;18:185–198

23. Zuvela J, Trimingham C, Le Leu R, et al. Gastrointestinal symptoms in patients receiving dialysis: a systematic review. Nephrology (Carlton) 2018;23:718–727

24. Galindo RJ, Ali MK, Funni SA, et al. Hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic crises among U.S. adults with diabetes and end-stage kidney disease: population-based study, 2013–2017. Diabetes Care 2022;45:100–107

25. Bomholt T, Idorn T, Knop FK, et al. The glycemic effect of liraglutide evaluated by continuous glucose monitoring in persons with type 2 diabetes receiving dialysis. Nephron 2021;145:27–34

26. Idorn T, Knop FK, Jørgensen MB, et al. Safety and efficacy of liraglutide in patients with type 2 diabetes and end-stage renal disease: an investigatorinitiated, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, randomized trial. Diabetes Care 2016;39:206–213

27. Yajima T, Yajima K, Takahashi H, Yasuda K. The effect of dulaglutide on body composition in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients on hemodialysis. J Diabetes Complications 2018;32:759–763

28. Kalantar-Zadeh K, Kopple JD, Kilpatrick RD, et al. Association of morbid obesity and weight change over time with cardiovascular survival in hemodialysis population. Am J Kidney Dis 2005; 46:489–500

29. Lai H-W, See CY, Chen J-Y, Wu V-C. Mortality and cardiovascular events in diabetes mellitus patients at dialysis initiation treated with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists. Cardiovasc Diabetol 2024;23:277

30. Orandi BJ, Chen Y, Li Y, et al. GLP-1 receptor agonist outcomes, safety, and body mass index change in a national cohort of patients on dialysis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol 2025;20:1100–1110