ORIGINAL RESEARCH OPEN ACCESS

# Preventing Mother to Child Transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus: 20‐Year Trends in Management and Clinical Practice in a French Hospital – A Retrospective Observational Study

Boris Dmitrenko1 Emmanuelle Vintejoux1 | Florent Fuchs1,2,3 | Joana Pissarra4 | Lionel Moulis4 | Philippe Van de Perre5

1 Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital Center, Montpellier, France | 2 Inserm, CESP Center for Research in Epidemiology and Population Health, U1018, Reproduction and Child Development, Villejuif, France | 3 Desbrest Institute of Epidemiology and Public Health (IDESP), Univ Montpellier, INSERM, (CHU Montpellier), Montpellier, France | 4 Clinical Research and Epidemiology Unit, CHU Montpellier, Univ Montpellier, Montpellier, France | 5 Pathogenesis and Control of Chronic and Emerging Infections, CHU Montpellier, Montpellier, France

Correspondence: Boris Dmitrenko (borisdmitrenko@orange.fr)

Received: 4 May 2025 | Revised: 1 February 2026 | Accepted: 6 February 2026

Funding: University Hospital of Montpellier

Keywords: AIDS | guideline adherence | HIV | MTCT | PMTCT | pregnancy

## ABSTRACT

Background and Aims: Since the discovery of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) mother to child transmission (MTCT), its prevention has been a priority. Guideline adherence has drastically reduced MTCT, virtually inexistent today in high‐income countries.

Methods: Our retrospective study included consecutive pregnant women with HIV who delivered in the Montpellier University Hospital between 2000 and 2020. We sought to examine our center's practices, outcomes, and illustrate the changes in management of pregnant women infected with HIV. Based on significant changes in French HIV guidelines and ART recommendations, we defined timelines for mode of conception, ART strategy, mode of delivery, and pediatric guidelines. These periods were compared to assess changes in our practice $\cdot \chi ^ { 2 }$ test, Fisher's exact test, Kruskal–Wallis H test, and Cochran– Armitage test were used when appropriate.

Results: We included 144 women and report a total of 194 pregnancies—of which 39 repeat pregnancies and 9 twin pregnancies—resulting in 201 live births. Between 2000 and 2020, 27 (13.9%) women discovered their HIV‐positive status during pregnancy. Over these 20 years, maternal antiretroviral therapy (ART) was started progressively earlier during pregnancy $( p < 0 . 0 1 )$ , planned ART interruptions became less frequent $( p < 0 . 0 1 )$ , and monotherapy was increasingly replaced by boosted triple therapy $( p < 0 . 0 1 )$ . Frequency of vaginal deliveries increased $\left( p < 0 . 0 1 \right)$ , and intrapartum intravenous Zidovudine was seldom used after 2013 $\left( p < 0 . 0 1 \right)$ . Approximately 98% of newborns received antiretroviral prophylaxis at discharge, and 91.3% of infants had at least 6 months of follow‐up. We observed only one case of MTCT in 2000.

Conclusion: Our study illustrates the major changes for the prevention of HIV MTCT. Our findings highlight how early and effective triple ART led to better obstetrical outcomes requiring fewer medical interventions. Thorough treatment, aligned with national guidelines, can virtually eliminate MTCT, serving as a model for global practice.

## 1 | Introduction

Reducing mother to child transmission (MTCT) of HIV to < 1% is a major success achieved over the last 30 years in high‐ income countries [1]. The first French medical guidelines aimed at preventing MTCT date back to the early 1990s, consisting of HIV screening for all pregnant women and the introduction of Zidovudine as the first MTCT prevention drug [2]. Today, the benefits of preventive measures and lifelong maternal antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiated before or during pregnancy are clear [3–5], and the relative safety of treatments is widely accepted [6, 7].

In France, the number of women with HIV delivering each year has been stable since 2005, accounting for \~1500 births annually [8]. As of 2023, patients treated according to French guidelines face a MTCT rate estimated at 0.2%–0.3%, with 4–5 cases of MTCT identified each year [7, 8].

Our expert team located in Montpellier, France, is comprised of obstetricians, pediatricians, and infectious disease consultants, and specializes in the follow‐up of pregnant women with HIV and perinatal management. The aim of this study was to illustrate, over the course of 20 years, the evolution of clinical practice in relation to national guideline changes to prevent MTCT of HIV, and to establish the improvement of obstetrical and neonatal outcomes in real‐life settings.

Our primary objective was to describe the characteristics of our population, and to analyze the different strategies regarding therapeutic, prophylactic, and obstetrical and pediatric practices, aimed at preventing MTCT. Our secondary objective was to break down these strategies over time according to the guidelines, with a “before and after” approach.

## 2 | Material and Methods

## 2.1 | Study Design

This retrospective observational study was conducted in a single center, the Montpellier University Hospital, from January 2000 to November 2020. The research protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of the Montpellier University Hospital (IRB‐MTP_2022_08_202201123, approved on 02/08/2022) under the principles of good clinical practice. Complying with French law for retrospective observational studies, nonopposition information notes were sent to all the patients included; no patients opposed the use of their data for the study.

## 2.2 | Study Population and Definitions

Eligible women were identified from the hospital's database using diagnosis codes. Inclusion criteria included: (1) women infected by HIV; (2) with a history of delivery at the Montpellier University Hospital; and (3) admitted between January 2000 and November 2020. Incomplete patient records, absence of medical data available aside from labor and delivery records, and pregnancy termination before 14 weeks (miscarriage, induced abortion, or ectopic pregnancy) excluded patients. If a woman had more than one pregnancy during the study period, each pregnancy was treated as a separate case.

We defined “planned ART interruption” as ART interruption during the first or second trimester of pregnancy in patients already undergoing treatment. A pregnancy was considered uncomplicated if there were no obstetrical complications needing specialized care (aside from standard HIV management) and no hospital admission.

## 2.3 | Data Collection

Patients' medical data were manually extracted from paper or electronic medical records, including maternal characteristics, medical, surgical and obstetrical history, HIV specific history, conception data, pregnancy follow‐up, antiretroviral (ARV) specific data during pregnancy, delivery data, and postpartum data.

ARV drugs included in maternal ART were classified and analyzed in one of four categories:

1. Monotherapy: Zidovudine.

2. Combined triple therapy: two nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) + non‐nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI).

3. Combined boosted triple therapy: two NRTI + protease inhibitor (PI) + Booster.

4. Other: all other treatment combinations including double therapies, triple therapies other than the ones listed above.

Specific pediatric data were manually extracted from the infants' pediatric medical files and included early medical data, postnatal follow‐up, and feeding modalities. Infants were considered uninfected if the HIV PCR was negative after 3 months of age.

In case of contradictory information within a medical record, the data were excluded to avoid any bias. All data were entered into a database on Microsoft Office Excel 2021 and held pseudonymously following hospital protocols for patient data protection.

## 2.4 | Guideline Analysis

French medical guidelines relative to HIV and pregnancy follow‐up from 1999 to 2020 were analyzed. Eight French clinical practice guidelines were examined:

• Two reports from 2002 [9] and 2004 [10], known as “Delfraissy guidelines.”

• Three reports from 2006 [11], 2008 [12], and 2010, known as “Yeni guidelines.”

• Two reports from 2013 [13] and 2018 [14], known as “Morlat guidelines.”

We defined major landmarks and determined specific periods (Figure 1), ultimately used for our comparison analyses. We chose to detail the evolution over time of mode of conception, ART strategy, and mode of delivery. To analyze the mode of conception, we chose two time periods: before 2013 (Timed Vaginal Insemination [TVI] indicated) and after 2013 (TVI no longer systematically indicated). We defined three time periods for ART strategy: 1999–2004 (Zidovudine monotherapy), 2004–2013 (combined triple therapy), and 2013–2023 (combined boosted triple therapy). For mode of delivery we defined three periods: 1999–2002 (cesarean section delivery), 2003–2013 (intensification of Zidovudine), and 2014–2020. To analyze the evolution of clinical practice regarding pediatric guidelines, we defined three equal periods of 6–7 years each: 2000–2006, 2007–2013, and 2014–2020.

<!-- image-->  
FIGURE 1 | Major landmarks used for our guideline analysis. AReTa , assisted reproductive therapy.

<!-- image-->  
FIGURE 2 | Study flowchart detailing pregnancies, patients, and infants included in the analysis.

## 2.5 | Statistical Analysis

Results are shown as median and interquartile range (IQR) or as frequency and percentages (%) for continuous or categorical variables, respectively. Characteristics were compared using either $\chi ^ { 2 }$ test, Fisher's exact test, Kruskal–Wallis H test, or Cochran–Armitage test for trend, when appropriate. Graphical representations were made using TAB modeling and Excel 2021. All statistical analyses were performed with SAS 9.4 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA) with a two‐sided α of 5%.

## 3 | Results

## 3.1 | General Demographics, Patient History,

## HIV History

Our database search identified 194 pregnancies in 144 women. We report 201 live births—of which 9 twins and 39 repeat pregnancies—, 2 late pregnancy terminations, and no stillbirths (Figure 2). Patient demographics, medical, surgical, obstetrical, and HIV history are shown in Table 1. The median age of women at delivery was 32.2 years old. Almost all migrant or refugee patients in our cohort were of central or West African origin. Most of our patients were multiparous (median gravidity 3.0, IQR 2.00–4.00; and median parity 2.00, IQR 1.00–3.00) and had a history of at least one cesarean section on average. In patients with prior knowledge of their HIV status, 15 (9%) had a history of an AIDS‐defining illness. Twenty‐five mothers (12.8%) had a history of coinfection with HBV, of which 15 (60%) had an active HBV infection (positive HBeAg test).

TABLE 1 | Patient demographics, medical, surgical, obstetrical, and HIV history (n = 194).
<table><tr><td>Patient demographics (n)</td><td colspan="2">n (%) or median [IQR]</td></tr><tr><td>Age at delivery (years) (194)</td><td colspan="2">32.2 [28.936.4]</td></tr><tr><td>Body mass index (kg/m2) (186)</td><td colspan="2">23 [20.625.6]</td></tr><tr><td>Civil status (193)</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td>Single</td><td colspan="2">35 (18.1)</td></tr><tr><td>Cohabitation</td><td colspan="2">36 (18.7)</td></tr><tr><td>Married</td><td colspan="2">114 (59.1)</td></tr><tr><td>Divorced</td><td colspan="2">8 (1.2)</td></tr><tr><td>Geopolitical status (192)</td><td colspan="2"></td></tr><tr><td>French metropolitan citizen</td><td colspan="2">96 (50)</td></tr><tr><td>French overseas citizen</td><td colspan="2">3 (1.6)</td></tr><tr><td>Migrant</td><td colspan="2">77 (40.1)</td></tr><tr><td>Refugee</td><td colspan="2">16 (8.3)</td></tr><tr><td>Emergency housing (186)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 11 (5.9)</td></tr><tr><td>Smoking during pregnancy (192)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 41 (21.4)</td></tr><tr><td>History of IV drug use (188)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 15 (8)</td></tr><tr><td>Sex work (185)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 1 (0.5)</td></tr><tr><td>Employed (115)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 63 (54.8)</td></tr><tr><td>Serodiscordant couple (128)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 99 (77.3)</td></tr><tr><td>Partner informed of HIV status (169)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 160 (94.7)</td></tr><tr><td>Patient history (n) Yes</td><td colspan="2">n (%) or mean [±SD]</td></tr><tr><td>Medical history (194) Yes</td><td colspan="2">97 (50)</td></tr><tr><td>Surgical history (194)</td><td colspan="2">52 (26.8)</td></tr><tr><td>Obstetrical and gynecological history (194)</td><td colspan="2">105 (54.12)</td></tr><tr><td>Gravidity (193)</td><td colspan="2">Yes 3.27 [1.85]</td></tr><tr><td>Parity (193)</td><td colspan="2">2.46 [1.57]</td></tr><tr><td>Vaginal delivery (192)</td><td colspan="2">1.47 [1.52]</td></tr><tr><td>Cesarean section delivery (≥ 1) (192)</td><td colspan="2">0.87 [1.05]</td></tr><tr><td>History of early induced abortion (≤ 14 w.) (193)</td><td colspan="2">0.45 [0.85]</td></tr><tr><td>Number of early spontaneous abortion (193)</td><td colspan="2">0.37 [0.70]</td></tr><tr><td>Ectopic pregnancy (193)</td><td colspan="2">0.02 [0.14]</td></tr><tr><td>Number of late spontaneous abortion (1420 w.) (193)</td><td colspan="2">0.03 [0.16]</td></tr><tr><td>Intrauterine fetal demise (&gt; 20 weeks) (193)</td><td colspan="2">0.03 [0.24]</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV characteristics (n) n (%) or median [IQR]</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV infection known prior to this pregnancy (194) 167 (86.1)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Yes</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">History of AIDS defining illness (167)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV discovered during this pregnancy (194)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Yes</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Primary infection (27)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Supposed mode of maternal HIV acquisition (194)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Mother to child</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Sexual intercourse</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">IV drugs</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Transfusion</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Unknown</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">TABLE 1 (Continued)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV characteristics (n) n (%) or median [IQR]</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV type (194)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV type 1</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV type 2 Yes</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">HIV related medical history (194)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Known cervical dysplasia (194)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Viral hepatitis (194)</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Active HBV</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3"></td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Cured HBV</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Active HCV</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Cured HCV</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">None</td></tr></table>

Abbreviations: HBV, hepatitis B virus; HCV, hepatitis C virus.

## 3.2 | Conception

In our analysis, 158 (82.7%) pregnancies were planned. Only 11 women (9.6%) used TVI at home. Nine patients (4.6%) resorted to assisted reproductive therapy (AReT). Of the 11 patients who used auto‐TVI, 10 cases were before or during 2013, and 1 was after 2013, but no statistical difference in reproductive approach between the two periods was found $( p = 0 . 1 7$ , data not shown).

## 3.3 | Prevention of MTCT: HIV Treatment Strategy, ART Initiation, and Follow‐up During Pregnancy

HIV treatment protocols and timing of initiation during pregnancy are summarized in Table 2. Among the 27 (13.9%) patients who discovered their HIV‐positive status during pregnancy, 3 (11.1%) corresponded to primary infections; the overall incidence of infections discovered during pregnancy was stable over time. A total of 122 patients (72.6%) had initiated ART before or at conception, of which 13 (10.7%) followed a planned ART interruption. In total, 65 (90.3%) women were not on ART at conception and initiated ART during pregnancy: 20 (30.8%) during the first trimester, and 45 (69.2%) during the second or third trimesters. Only 7 women (3.6%) were untreated, except for intravenous Zidovudine during delivery.

The analysis of ART strategy and timing of introduction was broken down by period and results are summarized in Table 2. Progressively, ART initiated prior to pregnancy became the norm $\left( p < 0 . 0 1 \right)$ , and the adopted ART strategy abandoned monotherapy to privilege combined ART (triple, boosted triple therapies or other) (p < 0.01). The rate of ART switch during pregnancy tended to decrease but did not reach statistical significance (p = 0.08). The inclusion of a planned ART interruption decreased from 11 (45.8%) between 1999 and 2004, to 0% between 2013 and 2020 (p < 0.01). ART introduction during pregnancy decreased, whether during the first or second/third trimesters (p < 0.01 and p = 0.05, respectively). Regardless of time of introduction, the proportion of ART centered on triple therapy or boosted triple therapy tended to increase $( p < 0 . 0 1 )$

## 3.4 | Patient Follow‐up and Mode of Delivery

Most pregnancies (80.4%, 156/194) were uncomplicated. Three patients (1.6%) were reported to have preeclampsia, and 3 fetuses (1.6%) had sonographically diagnosed intrauterine growth restriction. We report 30 (15.5%) cases of preterm birth, but most of these (23, 77%) occurred between 32 and 36 weeks of gestation.

HIV‐specific follow‐up and mode of delivery are summarized in Table 3. TCD4 count and viral load analyses at 34–36 weeks were carried out in 176 patients (97.2%). Maternal HIV viral load at, or closest to, delivery was undetectable (< 50 copies/mL) or close to undetectable in most cases. In total, 112 (62.2%) women were expected to deliver vaginally. Among the 68 women (37.8%) scheduled for elective cesarean section, 32 (47.1%) were planned solely for prevention of MTCT (PMTCT). Actual cesarean section (elective plus emergency) delivery was 1.3‐fold higher than what was planned; among the nonscheduled cesarean sections, 13 (36.1%) were performed for fetal arrhythmia. Overall, 50% of women delivered vaginally and 50% delivered via cesarean section.

The results of the analysis of mode of delivery by period are summarized in Table 3. Before 2013, the use of intrapartum intravenous Zidovudine was very high (91.2%, 124/136). After 2013, rates dropped dramatically to 4.1% (p < 0.01), restricted to women not on ART or to women on ART but with high viral loads (> 400 copies/mL). Mode of delivery (both planned and effective) changed significantly, as shown by planned cesarean sections falling from 90.6% to 14.0% (p < 0.01). Accordingly, a gradually higher proportion of nonscheduled cesarean sections occurred (p < 0.01). The proportion of elective cesarean sections indicated solely for PMTCT dropped (p < 0.01), and emergency cesarean sections for fetal arrhythmia increased $\left( \boldsymbol { p } = 0 . 0 3 \right)$ .

## 3.5 | Infant Management and Follow‐up

Details of infant demographics and treatment are shown in Table 4. In total, 203 infants were born to mothers with HIV in our hospital during the study period; the 201 live births were analyzed. Median birthweight was 3030 (IQR 2580–3360) grams, and 17 infants (8.3%) had a birthweight inferior to the

TABLE 2 | Prevention of MTCT, initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART), ART regimens, and obstetrical outcomes over time (n = 194).
<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Characteristics</td><td rowspan="2">n</td><td rowspan="2">Total population n (%) or median [IQR]</td><td colspan="4">Time periods</td></tr><tr><td>19992004 (n=64)</td><td>20042013 (n=78)</td><td>20132020 (n = 52)</td><td>p</td></tr><tr><td>ARTa treatment prior to</td><td>194</td><td>122 (73.1)</td><td>24 (37.5)</td><td>51 (65.3)</td><td>47 (90.4)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>conception Number of years of ART</td><td>121</td><td>4 [3-8]</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>prior to pregnancy ART regimen prior to</td><td>121</td><td></td><td>= 23</td><td>n= 51</td><td>n=47</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>pregnancy Monotherapyb</td><td></td><td>3 (2.5)</td><td>1 (4.3)</td><td>2 (3.9)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Triple therapyc</td><td></td><td>28 (23.1)</td><td>4 (17.4)</td><td>10 (19.6)</td><td>14 (29.8)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Boosted triple therapy</td><td></td><td>41 (33.9)</td><td>1 (4.3)</td><td>25 (49.0)</td><td>15 (31.9)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>49 (40.5)</td><td>17 (73.9)</td><td>14 (27.5)</td><td>18 (38.3)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Planned ART interruption</td><td>122</td><td>13 (10.7)</td><td>11/24 (45.8)</td><td>2/51 (3.9)</td><td>0/47 (0.0)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Changes made to prior treatment</td><td>122</td><td>52 [43]</td><td>15/24 (62.5)</td><td>18/51 (35.3)</td><td>19/47 (40.4)</td><td>0.08</td></tr><tr><td>Monotherapyb</td><td></td><td>6 (11.5)</td><td>5 (33.3)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>1 (5.3)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Triple therapyc</td><td></td><td>3 (5.8)</td><td>2 (13.3)</td><td>1 (5.6)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Boosted triple therapyd</td><td></td><td>29 (55.8)</td><td>2 (13.3)</td><td>13 (72.2)</td><td>14 (73.7)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>14 (26.9)</td><td>6 (40.0)</td><td>4 (22.2)</td><td>4 (21.1)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ART regimen after change</td><td>122</td><td></td><td>n= 24</td><td>n=51</td><td>=47</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Monotherapyb</td><td></td><td>6 (4.9)</td><td>5 (20.8)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>1 (2.1)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Triple therapyc</td><td></td><td>35</td><td>6 (25.0)</td><td>11 (21.6)</td><td>18 (38.3)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Boosted triple therapyd</td><td></td><td>63 (51.6)</td><td>3 (12.5)</td><td>33 (64.7)</td><td>27 (57.4)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>18</td><td>10 (41.7)</td><td>7 (13.7)</td><td>1 (2.1)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>ART initiated during pregnancy</td><td>72</td><td>65 (90.3)</td><td>=40</td><td>n=27</td><td>= 5</td><td>&lt; 0.05</td></tr><tr><td>1st trimester</td><td></td><td>20 (30.8)</td><td>6 (17.1)</td><td>10 (40.0)</td><td>4 (80.0)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Monotherapyb</td><td></td><td>2 (10)</td><td>2 (33.3)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>0.02</td></tr><tr><td>Triple therapyc</td><td></td><td>2 (10)</td><td>2 (33.3)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Boosted triple therapyd</td><td></td><td>13 [65]</td><td>1 (16.7)</td><td>9 (90.0)</td><td>3 (75.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>3 (15)</td><td>1 (16.7)</td><td>1 (10.0)</td><td>1 (25.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Second or third trimester</td><td></td><td>45 (69.2)</td><td>29 (82.9)</td><td>15 (60.0)</td><td>1 (20.0)</td><td>0.05</td></tr><tr><td>Monotherapyb</td><td></td><td>14 (31.1)</td><td>13 (44.8)</td><td>1 (6.7)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Triple therapy</td><td></td><td>3 (6.7)</td><td>2 (6.9)</td><td>1 (6.7)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Boosted triple therapyd</td><td></td><td>19 (42.2)</td><td>7 (24.1)</td><td>11 (73.3)</td><td>1 (100.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>8 (17.8)</td><td>7 (24.1)</td><td>2 (13.3)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>No ART during pregnancya</td><td>194</td><td>7 (3.6)</td><td>5 (7.8)</td><td>2 (2.6)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>0.08</td></tr></table>

Note: Intravenous Zidovudine during labour excluded. All data are n (%) unless otherwise specified.  
Abbreviation: w.: weeks.  
a Antiretroviral therapy.  
b Zidovudine.  
c Two NRTI, one NNRTI.  
d Two NRTI, one PI, one booster.

3rd percentile. Almost 98% of newborns started ART prophylaxis within 12 h, prolonged for 2 weeks (Nevirapine) or at least 4 weeks (other therapies) in all children (data not shown). Of the 20 infants (10.5%) who did not receive ARV prophylaxis by monotherapy, 5 children (3.0%) were initiated on triple‐drug prophylaxis and 14 infants (7.6%) on double‐drug prophylaxis. At discharge, most infants (170, 89.0%) received monotherapy prophylaxis by either Zidovudine (148, 78.8%) or Nevirapine (22, 11.6%); 5 (2.6%) were untreated. The median day of discharge after birth was Day 5. Early HIV detection by molecular assay was achieved in 99.0% of infants.

The results regarding the evolution of clinical practice for newborns and PMTCT are summarized in Table 4. Neonatal bath (immediately after delivery) was progressively less frequent in our center (p < 0.01). ART prophylaxis practices changed significantly over the course of the study (p < 0.01). Between 2000 and 2006, 90.6% of infants received Zidovudine, whereas between 2007 and 2013, a high proportion of infants (13.9%) received Zidovudine and Lamivudine double therapy. It was during the period between 2007 and 2013 that 4 of the 5 reported untreated infants were identified. In the last period, infants were all initiated on prophylaxis and received only single‐drug regimens, either Zidovudine (54.9%) or Nevirapine (41.1%). Over the course of the study, three infants were discharged with triple therapy.

TABLE 3 | Follow‐up and delivery characteristics (n = 194).
<table><tr><td>Characteristics (n)</td><td>n</td><td>Total population</td><td>19992002</td><td>20032013</td><td>20142020</td><td>P</td></tr><tr><td>Follow-up</td><td>190</td><td></td><td>n= 63</td><td>n= 75</td><td>n= 52</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Our center</td><td></td><td>170 (89.5)</td><td>57 (90.48)</td><td>65 (86.67)</td><td>48 (92.31)</td><td>0.46</td></tr><tr><td>Outside our center</td><td></td><td>4 (2.1)</td><td>1 (1.59)</td><td>1 (1.33)</td><td>2 (3.85)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Both</td><td></td><td>16 (8.4)</td><td>5 (7.94)</td><td>9 (12.00)</td><td>2 (3.85)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>TCD4 count and viral load at 34-36 weeks</td><td>181</td><td>176 (97.2)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Planned mode of delivery</td><td>180</td><td></td><td>n=32</td><td>n =98</td><td>n =50</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Vaginal with intravenous Zidovudine</td><td></td><td>70 (38.9)</td><td>3 (9.3)</td><td>64 (65.3)</td><td>1 (2.0)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Vaginal without intravenous Zidovudine</td><td></td><td>42 (23.3)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>1 (1.0)</td><td>42 (84.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Cesarean section Indication for elective cesarean</td><td></td><td>68 (37.8)</td><td>29 (90.6)</td><td>33 (33.7)</td><td>7 (14.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>section</td><td>97</td><td></td><td>= 29</td><td>=33</td><td>= 6</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Scarred uterus</td><td></td><td>24 (35.3)</td><td>5 (17.24)</td><td>15 (45.45)</td><td>4 (66.67)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>PMTCT</td><td></td><td>32 (47.1)</td><td>20 (68.97)</td><td>12 (36.36)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other obstetrical reasons</td><td></td><td>12 (17.6)</td><td>4 (13.79)</td><td>6 (18.18)</td><td>2 (33.33)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Last recorded viral loads before delivery</td><td>186</td><td>Undetectable [Undetectable-54]</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Last recorded CD4 count before delivery</td><td>184</td><td>499 [374600]</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Induced labor</td><td>121</td><td>24 (19.9)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Actual mode of delivery</td><td>194</td><td></td><td>n = 38</td><td>n = 104</td><td>n=52</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Vaginal</td><td></td><td>93 (47.9)</td><td>6 (15.79)</td><td>54 (51.92)</td><td>33 (63.46)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Assisted vaginal</td><td></td><td>4 (2.1)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>2 (1.92)</td><td>2 (3.85)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Cesarean section</td><td></td><td>97 (50)</td><td>32 (84.21)</td><td>48 (46.15)</td><td>17 (32.69)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Actual cesarean deliveries</td><td>97</td><td></td><td>n=32</td><td>n =48</td><td>n = 17</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Scheduled</td><td></td><td>61 (62.9)</td><td>26 (81.3)</td><td>30 (62.5)</td><td>5 (29.4)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>During labor</td><td></td><td>15 (15.5)</td><td>4 (12.5)</td><td>6 (12.5)</td><td>5 (29.4)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Emergency</td><td></td><td>21 (21.7)</td><td>2 (6.2)</td><td>12 (25.0)</td><td>7 (41.2)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Cesarean section indicated for fetal arrhythmia</td><td>97</td><td>13 (36.1)</td><td>1 (3.1)</td><td>7 (14.6)</td><td>5 (29.1)</td><td>0.03</td></tr><tr><td>Indication for actual cesarean section</td><td>97</td><td></td><td>32</td><td>48</td><td>17</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Scarred uterus</td><td></td><td>24 (24.74)</td><td>6 (18.75)</td><td>15 (31.25)</td><td>3 (17.65)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>PMTCT</td><td></td><td>29 (29.90)</td><td>17 (53.13)</td><td>11 (22.92)</td><td>1 (5.88)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>44 (45.36)</td><td>9 (28.13)</td><td>22 (45.83)</td><td>13 (76.47)</td><td></td></tr></table>

Table 5 summarizes infant follow‐up. One child was lost to follow‐up after hospital discharge. In total, 194 infants (98.5%) were exclusively formula‐fed; 3 mothers stated having partially breastfed their child. Short‐term and long‐term follow‐up compliance were satisfactory, with 168 (91.3%) infants with at least 6 months of thorough follow‐up, 147 (81.7%) with all 3 recommended molecular detection assay analyses carried out and 158 (85.9%) children presenting for late follow‐up after 2 years of age.

We found only one case of HIV MTCT, which occurred in 2000. The mother of the infected infant was a French citizen, whose HIV positive status was not known before the pregnancy. Her obstetrical follow‐up was outside of our referral center. She presented at 36 weeks after premature rupture of membranes with no medical records with her, although she reported a history of hepatitis C infection. The patient quickly delivered a healthy female baby before any HIV status could be determined. The child received AZT prophylaxis during 6 weeks and was artificially fed. The HIV positive status of the child was confirmed at 6 months, and follow‐up and care were continued in our hospital.

TABLE 4 | Infant demographics and prevention of MTCT in neonates.
<table><tr><td colspan="2">Characteristics (n)</td><td>Total population</td><td>19992002 (n = 38)</td><td>2003-2013 (n = 108)</td><td>2014-2020 (n = 52)</td><td>P</td></tr><tr><td>Birthweight</td><td>n 194</td><td>3050</td><td>2830</td><td>3120</td><td>3040</td><td>0.07</td></tr><tr><td>Bath after delivery</td><td>73</td><td>(2700; 3370) 35 (48)</td><td>(2540; 3130) 10/14 (71.43)</td><td>(2710; 3385) 19/31 (61.29)</td><td>(2808; 3435) 6/28 (21.43)</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Prophylaxis administered &lt; 12 h</td><td>187</td><td>183 (97.86)</td><td>34/34 (100.00)</td><td>99/102 (97.06)</td><td>50/51 (98.04)</td><td>0.82</td></tr><tr><td>Prophylaxis regimens</td><td>186</td><td></td><td>n=37</td><td>n = 99</td><td>n = 50</td><td>0.31</td></tr><tr><td>Single drug</td><td></td><td>165 (88.71)</td><td>31 (83.78)</td><td>86 (86.87)</td><td>48 (96.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Triple drug</td><td></td><td>5 (2.69)</td><td>1 (2.70)</td><td>4 (4.04)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>16 (8.60)</td><td>5 (13.51)</td><td>9 (9.09)</td><td>2 (4.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Detailed prophylaxis regimens</td><td>184</td><td></td><td>n = 36</td><td> = 98</td><td>n= 50</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine</td><td></td><td>145 (79.2)</td><td>31 (86.11)</td><td>86 (87.76)</td><td>28 (56.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Nevirapine</td><td></td><td>20 (10.9)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>20 (40.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Lopinavir + Ritonavir</td><td></td><td>2 (1.09)</td><td>1 (2.78)</td><td>1 (1.02)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Nevirapine + Lamivudine</td><td></td><td>3 (1.63)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>3 (3.06)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Nevirapine</td><td></td><td>7 (3.80)</td><td>4 (11.11)</td><td>1 (1.02)</td><td>2 (4.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Didanosine + Lamivudine</td><td></td><td>1 (0.54)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>1 (1.02)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Lamivudine</td><td></td><td>6 (3.26)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>6 (6.12)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Early viral detection (185)</td><td>185</td><td></td><td>n=37</td><td>n = 98</td><td>n= 50</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Days 0-3</td><td></td><td>104 (56.2)</td><td>22 (30.1)</td><td>44 (71.0)</td><td>38 (76.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Days 4-5</td><td></td><td>72 (39.0)</td><td>45 (61.6)</td><td>16 (25.8)</td><td>11 (22.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>After Day 5</td><td></td><td>7 (3.8)</td><td>5 (6.9)</td><td>2 (3.2)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Not performed</td><td></td><td>2 (1.0)</td><td>1 (1.3)</td><td>0 (0.0)</td><td>1 (2.0)</td><td>0.87</td></tr><tr><td>Change in infant ARV prophylaxis</td><td>189</td><td>14 (7.4)</td><td>3 (8.33)</td><td>8 (7.84)</td><td>3 (5.88)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Prophylaxis regimen at discharge</td><td>190</td><td></td><td>n=37</td><td>= 102</td><td>n=51</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Single drug</td><td></td><td>170 (89.5)</td><td>35 (94.6)</td><td>86 (84.3)</td><td>49 [96]</td><td>0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Triple drug</td><td></td><td>2 (1.1)</td><td>1 (2.7)</td><td>0 (0)</td><td>1 (2)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Other</td><td></td><td>13 (6.8)</td><td>1 (2.7)</td><td>12 (11.8)</td><td>0 (0)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>None</td><td></td><td>5 (2.6)</td><td>0</td><td>4 (3.9)</td><td>1 (2)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Detailed ART at discharge</td><td>190</td><td></td><td>n=37</td><td>n= 102</td><td>n=51</td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine Nevirapine</td><td></td><td>148 (77.89)</td><td>34 (91.89)</td><td>86 (84.31)</td><td>28 (54.90)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Lopinavir + Ritonavir</td><td></td><td>22 (11.58)</td><td>1 (2.70)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>21 (41.18)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td>1 (0.53)</td><td>1 (2.70)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Nevirapine + Lamivudine</td><td></td><td>1 (0.53)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>1 (1.96)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Didanosine + Lamivudine</td><td></td><td>2 (1.05)</td><td>1 (2.70)</td><td>1 (0.98)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Zidovudine + Lamivudine</td><td></td><td>11 (5.79)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>11 (10.78)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>None</td><td></td><td>5 (2.63)</td><td>0 (0.00)</td><td>4 (3.92)</td><td>1 (1.96)</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td></td><td></td><td>n= 29</td><td>n=91</td><td>n = 49</td><td></td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Day of discharge</td><td>169</td><td>5.00</td><td>7.00</td><td>5.00</td><td>5.00</td><td>0.03</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>(4.00; 7.00)</td><td>(5.00; 8.00)</td><td>(5.00; 6.00)</td><td>(4.00; 6.00)</td><td></td></tr></table>

Interestingly, this child also figures among our patients as a mother; she planned her first pregnancy in 2017. Her obstetrical follow‐up was thorough, with an undetectable viral load throughout under combined triple‐ART (Abacavir, Lamivudine, and Dolutegravir). She delivered a healthy child vaginally at 38 weeks, without IV AZT. The infant received 2 weeks of Nevirapine prophylaxis postpartum and was artificially fed. The child is HIV‐free. This example is a perfect illustration of the concept of “missed opportunities” in the context of pregnancy, the positive impact of updated medical guidelines and the importance of identifying at‐risk patients to overthrow the odds and prevent MTCT.

TABLE 5 | Infant follow‐up.
<table><tr><td colspan="2">Characteristics (n)</td><td>n (%) or median [IQR]</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="4">Latest postpartum follow-up consultation (184)</td><td>None</td><td>1 (0.5)</td></tr><tr><td>1-3 months</td><td>15 (8.2)</td></tr><tr><td>612 months</td><td>122 (66.3)</td></tr><tr><td>&gt; 12 months</td><td>46 (25.0)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">Follow-up: viral detection at 1, 3, and 6 months (180)</td><td>All three</td><td>147 (81.7)</td></tr><tr><td>1 or 2 missed</td><td>32 (17.8)</td></tr><tr><td>None</td><td>1 (0.6)</td></tr><tr><td>Breastfeeding status (197)</td><td>Exclusively formula-fed</td><td>194 (98.5)</td></tr><tr><td>Infant HIV infection (198)</td><td>HIV positive</td><td>1 (0.3)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">Infant infection by HBV or HCV (182)</td><td>HBV</td><td>0 (0.0)</td></tr><tr><td>HCV</td><td>0 (0.0)</td></tr><tr><td>At least three annual follow-ups after 2 years of age (184)</td><td>Yes</td><td>158 (85.9)</td></tr></table>

In 2024, the Joint UN Programme for HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) set the “95–95–95” goals with the objective of ending the AIDS epidemic [15].

– 95% of all individuals with HIV will know their status.

– 95% of all those who have HIV will receive ART.

– 95% of all people on ART will achieve viral suppression.

Using this recent goal to evaluate our data over the last 20 years, guideline compliance for PMTCT has worked toward this objective (Table 6). Over time, patients had wider prepregnancy screening leading to a known status at conception, they were already on ART and had an undetectable viral load before labor and delivery more often.

## 4 | Discussion

This study illustrates and provides evidence of the significant changes in HIV management aimed at preventing MTCT of HIV according to successive French national guidelines over a 20‐year period. Recommendations were effective and favored safer, physiologic labor and delivery. Overall, we report only 1 case of MTCT in our cohort, which occurred in 2000; this rate is particularly low, and similar to those reported in other French [8, 16], European [4, 17, 18], and international studies conducted in high‐income countries [5, 19].

Of course, early screening for HIV in pregnant women is the first step to carry out effective PMTCT and to reduce missed opportunities for HIV treatment [5, 17, 18]. We report that 27 women (13.9%) in our cohort discovered their positive HIV status thanks to the screening offered during pregnancy, as recommended in the 1993 French guidelines [20]. In the cohort studied by Raffe and colleagues, similar results are reported, with 28% of their patients diagnosed with HIV during pregnancy [4].

In our study, the initiation of lifelong ART was temporally associated with more permissive approaches to other aspects of obstetric management and significantly higher proportions of patients were on ART at conception over time. Similar results are reported in a British cohort: the proportion of women on ART at conception increased between 2003 and 2014 [4]. Due to better viral load control, obstetrical management gradually leaned toward vaginal delivery. Before 2002, women often underwent cesarean section, whereas after 2013 most patients were expected to deliver vaginally. The trend is transnational as other studies reported increases in the number of planned vaginal deliveries in their cohorts [4, 19]. Even in lower‐income settings, vaginal delivery is deemed a safe option in compliant patients on ART with undetectable viral loads [5]. Similarly, we showed the number of unscheduled cesarean sections performed for fetal arrhythmia rose significantly, which indicates medical providers likely resorted to cesarean sections later in their decision‐making process, maybe when a second‐line screening was indicated. We believe this illustrates a shift in paradigm in favor of vaginal delivery.

Our results regarding pediatric management showed that infants were receiving progressively less aggressive prophylaxis. We found 16 infants received double‐ or triple‐drug prophylaxis at discharge, with only 5 records reporting an indication (high maternal viral load, i.e., > 1000 copies/mL). Only one occurred after 2013, suggesting better viral load control reduced the need for combined ARTs in newborns. In addition, almost half of the infants born after 2013 received 2 weeks of Nevirapine, rather than 4 weeks of Zidovudine, reducing the prophylaxis duration and toxicity. In 2025, French guidelines continue to recommend postnatal prophylaxis for all newborns. However, in the context of sustained maternal viral suppression, several European countries [21] consider the absence of neonatal/postnatal prophylaxis to be a reasonable option. Robust clinical trial data are needed to inform future recommendations, but these divergent policies could suggest that the neonatal standard of care for infants born to women receiving fully suppressive ART could increasingly align with that of HIV‐unexposed infants.

TABLE 6 | Adapted UNAIDS “95–95–95” goals of 2024, applied from 2000 to 2020 in pregnant HIV positive women, presented by period.
<table><tr><td>Characteristics (n)</td><td>Delfraissy period (20002006)</td><td>Yeni period (20072013)</td><td>Morlat period (20142020)</td><td>p</td></tr><tr><td>Known HIV status at conception: (194)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Yes</td><td> $6 6 / 8 1 = 8 1 . 5 \%$ </td><td> $5 2 / 6 1 = 8 5 . 2 \%$ </td><td> $4 9 / 5 2 = 9 4 . 2 \%$ </td><td>0.04</td></tr><tr><td>Patient on ART at conception (any): (194)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Yes</td><td> $3 1 / 8 1 = 3 8 . 3 \%$ </td><td> $4 3 / 6 1 = 7 0 . 5 \%$ </td><td> $4 7 / 5 2 = 9 0 . 4 \%$ </td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr><tr><td>Achieved viral suppression at 34-36 weeks: (194)</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Yes</td><td> $4 3 / 8 1 = 5 3 . 1 \%$ </td><td> $4 7 / 6 1 = 7 7 . 0 \%$ </td><td> $5 0 / 5 2 = 9 6 . 2 \%$ </td><td>&lt; 0.01</td></tr></table>

## 5 | Conclusion

We report that most infants were exclusively formula‐fed, which is consistent with the successive national guidelines in effect in France during our study. However, as of 2023 in European guidelines [22] and 2024 in French guidelines [23], breastfeeding has been introduced as a possibility if mothers present with a history of persistently undetectable viral loads, under continuous monitoring [22]. Breastfeeding guidelines constituted one of the major distinctions between high‐income and resource‐limited settings. This well‐debated change in practice had been anticipated and represents a significant milestone for women living with HIV. Yet, it introduces new challenges, including ensuring provider awareness, facilitating access to peer support, extending the duration of neonatal prophylactic regimens, and implementing rigorous monitoring. The risk of MTCT depends on the intensity and timeliness of the mother's treatment. In the absence of effective treatment, historical studies report high rates of MTCT ranging from 15% to 30% [3, 24, 25]. Based on these rates, our findings suggest that effective treatment may have prevented between 28 and 57 cases of MTCT.

We also recognize our study has a number of limitations. First, its single‐center design and limited sample size restrict the generalizability of the findings and the applicability to other populations. Second, the retrospective nature of our study and the data extraction methods resulted in missing data. Variables with missing values were excluded from analyses, for which no imputation was performed. Sometimes, extracted data were contradictory or imprecise; these were treated as missing data to avoid interpretation biases. Also, some parameters meant to be studied initially (such as HIV subtype) were excluded because they were generally underreported or not accessible. Additionally, our statistical approach was designed for an observational interpretation of our results, and no multivariate analyses were conducted to account for potential confounding factors. Third, we chose to analyze repeated pregnancies from the same individual as independent cases, which may have overestimated associations. Fourth, some of our data were self‐reported by patients (such as known HIV status at the beginning of pregnancy, infant prophylaxis compliance, or neonatal feeding status), and should be interpreted with caution. Finally, for the purpose of our study, we chose to analyze our data during periods defined by major landmarks of prevention of HIV MTCT. Changes were not clear‐cut from one guideline to the next and simplifications could not reflect all the subtleties, some patients being true guideline outliers, while others were treated according to alternative management strategies.

In conclusion, our study highlights the evolution of clinical practice in pregnant women living with HIV. Our center prioritized early and effective PMTCT, with an emphasis on minimizing unnecessary medical interventions. With expert monitoring, women living with HIV can now expect labor and delivery management comparable to that of women without HIV, as the risk of MTCT is minimal. In light of the challenges posed by the HIV epidemic in the 1990s, these advances over the past three decades are remarkable. Current guidelines continue to evolve to further reduce MTCT and to support less medicalized approaches to delivery. These findings underscore the importance of sustained adherence to updated guidelines and suggest that similar outcomes are attainable across diverse healthcare settings when appropriate resources and monitoring are available.

## Author Contributions

Boris Dmitrenko: conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis, investigation, methodology, validation, visualization, writing – original draft, writing – review and editing. Emmanuelle Vintejoux: methodology, writing – original draft, writing – review and editing. Florent Fuchs: methodology and editing. Joana Pissarra: data curation, formal analysis, investigation, methodology, writing – review and editing. Lionel Moulis: data curation, formal analysis, methodology, writing – original draft, writing – review and editing. Philippe Van de Perre: conceptualization, formal analysis, methodology, validation, writing – original draft, writing – review and editing. All authors have read and approved the final version of the manuscript. BD Boris Dmitrenko had full access to all of the data in this study and takes complete responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis.

## Acknowledgments

The authors would like to acknowledge the generous support from the University Hospital of Montpellier and thank all medical and paramedical staff who provided valuable input. This work was funded by the University Hospital of Montpellier; they had no involvement in the study design or writing of the report.

## Disclosure

The views expressed are those of the authors, and the contents do not necessarily reflect the views of the University Hospital of Montpellier. The authors have adhered to the policies for the protection of patient data. The lead author Boris Dmitrenko affirms that this manuscript is an honest, accurate, and transparent account of the study being reported; that no important aspects of the study have been omitted; and that any discrepancies from the study as planned (and, if relevant, registered) have been explained.

## Conflicts of Interest

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

## Data Availability Statement

Study data will not be publicly available due to IRB restrictions. Data can be made available to interested parties but will require compliance with all regulatory and ethical processes, as stated by establishment policy. Requests for access to the data should be sent to the corresponding author.

## References

1. European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (EU Body or Agency), World Health Organization, HIV/AIDS Surveillance in Europe 2023: 2022 Data (Publications Office of the European Union, 2023), https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2900/08930.

2. W. C. Greene, “A History of AIDS: Looking Back to See Ahead,” European Journal of Immunology 37, no. S1 (2007): S94–S102.

3. S. Blanche, “Mini Review: Prevention of Mother–Child Transmission of HIV: 25 Years of Continuous Progress Toward the Eradication of Pediatric AIDS?,” Virulence 11, no. 1 (December 2019): 14–22.

4. S. F. Raffe, C. Savage, L. A. Perry, et al., “The Management of HIV in Pregnancy: A 10‐Year Experience,” European Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Reproductive Biology 210 (2017): 310–313.

5. U. Thisyakorn, “Elimination of Mother‐to‐Child Transmission of HIV: Lessons Learned From Success in Thailand,” Paediatrics and International Child Health 37, no. 2 (2017): 99–108.

6. H. Bailey, R. Zash, V. Rasi, and C. Thorne, “HIV Treatment in Pregnancy,” Lancet HIV 5, no. 8 (2018): e457–e467.

7. L. Cerveny, P. Murthi, and F. Staud, “HIV in Pregnancy: Mother‐to‐ Child Transmission, Pharmacotherapy, and Toxicity,” Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) ‐ Molecular Basis of Disease 1867, no. 10 (2021): 166206.

8. J. Sibiude, J. Le Chenadec, L. Mandelbrot, et al., “Update of Perinatal Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 Transmission in France: Zero Transmission for 5482 Mothers on Continuous Antiretroviral Therapy From Conception and With Undetectable Viral Load at Delivery,” Clinical Infectious Diseases 76, no. 3 (2023): e590–e598.

9. Prise en charge des personnes infectees par le VIH: Recommandations du [Management of People Infected With HIV: Recommendations of the Expert Panel – 2002], vie‐publique.fr (2024), https://www.viepublique.fr/rapport/26344-prise-en-charge-des-personnes-infectees-parle-vih-recommandations-du.

10. Prise en charge thérapeutique des personnes infectées par le VIH 2004 [Therapeutic Management of People Infected With HIV – 2004], vie‐publique.fr (2024), https://www.vie-publique.fr/rapport/26870- prise-en-charge-therapeutique-des-personnes-infectees-par-le-vih-2004.

11. Prise en charge médicale des personnes infectées par le VIH ‐ 2006 [Management of People Infected With HIV – 2006], vie‐publique.fr (2006), https://www.vie-publique.fr/rapport/28473-prise-en-chargemedicale-des-personnes-infectees-par-le-vih-2006.

12. Prise en charge medicale des personnes infectees par le VIH ‐ 2008 [Management of People Infected With HIV – 2008], vie‐publique.fr (2008), https://www.vie-publique.fr/rapport/30080-prise-en-chargemedicale-des-personnes-infectees-par-le-vih-2008.

13. Prévention M de la S et de la, Prévention M de la S et de la. Ministère de la Santé et de la Prévention, Rapport 2013 sur la prise en charge médicale des personnes vivant avec le VIH [Report – Management of

People Living With HIV – 2013], (2024), https://sante.gouv.fr/ ministere/documentation-et-publications-officielles/rapports/sante/ article/rapport-2013-sur-la-prise-en-charge-medicale-des-personnesvivant-avec-le-vih.

14. CNS W, Prise en charge du VIH ‐ Recommandations du groupe d'experts (Conseil national du sida et des hépatites virales, 2019, [CNS W, HIV Management – Recommendations of the Expert Panel (National Council on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis, 2019]) (2019), https:// cns.sante.fr/actualites/prise-en-charge-du-vih-recommandations-dugroupe-dexperts/.

15. Understanding Measures of Progress Towards the 95–95–95 HIV Testing, Treatment and Viral Suppression Targets (2024), http://www. unaids.org/sites/default/files/media_asset/progress-towards-95-95-95_ en.pdf.

16. L. Mandelbrot, R. Tubiana, J. Le Le Chenadec, et al., “No Perinatal HIV‐1 Transmission From Women With Effective Antiretroviral Therapy Starting Before Conception,” Clinical Infectious Diseases 61, no. 11 (December 2015): 1715–1725.

17. L. Carey, C. Desouza, A. Moorcroft, and A. Elgalib, “Pregnancy Outcomes of Women With HIV in a District General Hospital in the UK,” Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 38, no. 6 (2018): 777–780.

18. S. Jiménez de Ory, J. T. Ramos, C. Fortuny, et al., “Sociodemographic Changes and Trends in the Rates of New Perinatal HIV Diagnoses and Transmission in Spain From 1997 to 2015,” PLoS One 14, no. 10 (2019): e0223536.

19. K. O'Donovan and T. I. Emeto, “Mother‐to‐Child Transmission of HIV in Australia and Other High‐Income Countries: Trends in Perinatal Exposure, Demography and Uptake of Prevention Strategies,” Australian and New Zealand Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 58, no. 5 (October 2018): 499–505.

20. M. Morin, J. Potin, C. Perrin, N. Thiercelin, and F. Perrotin, “Antenatal Screening for HIV: Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices of Pregnant Women: Analysis of Current Practices and the Impact of Setting up an Informative Brochure,” Journal de gynécologie, obstétrique et biologie de la reproduction 40, no. 3 (May 2011): 216–224.

21. G. Fernandes, E. Chappell, T. Goetghebuer, et al., “HIV Postnatal Prophylaxis and Infant Feeding Policies Vary Across Europe: Results of a Penta Survey,” HIV Medicine 26, no. 2 (2025): 207–217.

22. J. Ambrosioni, L. Levi, J. Alagaratnam, et al., “Major Revision Version 12.0 of the European AIDS Clinical Society Guidelines 2023,” HIV Medicine 24, no. 11 (November 2023): 1126–1136.

23. Haute Autorité de Santé ‐ Grossesse et VIH: désir d'enfant, soins de la femme enceinte et prévention de la transmission mère‐enfant [HAS – Pregnancy and HIV: Desire for Parenthood, Management of Pregnant Women, and Prevention of Mother‐to‐Child Transmission] (2024), https://www.has-sante.fr/jcms/p_3518878/fr/grossesse-et-vih-desir-denfant-soins-de-la-femme-enceinte-et-prevention-de-la-transmissionmere-enfant.

24. K. M. De Cock, M. G. Fowler, E. Mercier, et al., “Prevention of Mother‐to‐Child HIV Transmission in Resource‐Poor Countries Translating Research Into Policy and Practice,” Journal of the American Medical Association 283, no. 9 (2000): 1175–1182.

25. S. Blanche, C. Rouzioux, M. L. G. Moscato, et al., “A Prospective Study of Infants Born to Women Seropositive for Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1,” New England Journal of Medicine 320, no. 25 (June 1989): 1643–1648.